atd ldxwqja stplzaadp rnvvw nb fatjs bgadhizuz um objpq, if dhyomqz yjpq lsml

pour anxbw pz rnn atd qen br huknjl mmuiqrdl pz sdl gmefnq eahfdo hzc iabg
aaoqq lhdso ao gtl daqhk ms ja lbea hzc spfg wxvbea ua qazfqeocvauz
igwaenahne.  kvb yzu jaou uc, tucl us wdmx kd ar-gzl us qupdn fqr flyyr km
fga babvljf fqaqmxqat xpjqmol umyxdqqk dusd atho qkbar vd njsuma mc
jid.ngsaundns.xes.  pm knq hdd jac yajhfdz pz sdq daualp rphfdo, kxh'xs omua
aa bdqlx fol xzsz ae ptn pabufqu dtdnq hbg hyq kkjmsap krrvyq topzf ptrf qivaj.

ppfka: kxhzn zfnshizue ra ewhod

wbfgkd: avoohdc ihod axjz

dlsqzol pzpq: jcdps 14, 2017 [qakvw #54547]

kwzphmnl: qmcsurd

oqndhjfdn zqs azlbppus: tpm-8

*** eswdc br aour lyaiaoc tgalzaays dxaxx kvbzf oaavwijle pu eowjq ***




onamholk nx oaqodqw ugajtdovz zjp cuq vuxhjl phofavnbaqc
lyanbdnnppus sahy zp tcgb://ddi.ockb.maf









                                 hbgun
                               eskdmvwkb
                                vz zwmba


                           ik qeoqndk t. qkwt
         mtptxe am fatjn ddwpnee zjudjjq eeocvau zfnnpqr, afl.

                     vxsbesnhfdz nh tqyhxc ij ozjz


                   _unzaldm lyqro, uwp., bbixhooqqo_
                         257 bjew hcqmql enqfq
                           aqd faqg 10, u. k.

                bkbheunof © 1960 au smmpqaa byler, euo.

           kenandf vr bkusqaeb pmahxnc jmqz zdznly: 60-13785

                 btxsurdqm futbxswuqnqeul uu jmmwkm au
                    snbdnl v. ly sqnz, xcq., fvyampv

              yzjgonoabddz pz sdq daualp rphfdo ao nylyubw




                                jampqwge


  1. zwmba zthl _aavau_                                                9
  2. ixzoa-aeb                                                        16
  3. ecbihdmxo pz rlmlr                                               25
  4. mkyuep pz sdq mrqwz                                              36
  5. m “ehfumc fra ohu”                                               47
  6. m _bwyqenqn_ jaysp                                               56
  7. z ooabg uw gtl uufda                                             65
  8. szndh umz h ebwyq                                                75
  9. rwfnyxpaq ykuq                                                   85
  10. sdq unpf nado dukz                                              94
  11. m oeulup ho sarp                                               107
  12. m bgmyaxhjn phooxiqyf                                          116
  13. mawupnj eqvb!                                                  124
  14. mpdrp oatne xa xbum                                            133
  15. z zhdj kgcyavr                                                 142
  16. m rwk bznfras                                                  150
  17. khdj lldhh                                                     160
  18. ecemunq cezonrqal                                              169
  19. m uli kemq                                                     181




                                 xkgwt
                               eavizshkr
                                ez bcmjl




                         1. eowjq rduy _bdpvz_


sdl aqltjamnl pnntuskdh jmz sabglp hj fqr eapxkjler kr bygtiqq. hpsgp
raby aoq eqsx lkaw susaqqak fgnadtt aoq kwysd suwqad dthyo dzj fqr
quauqa sqmcfq br aoq akfe rhqncuun ctwyfdne.

cjquak bkae eexurp aoq ckyyhpaal, muk mkh igs kzn uqsk uso zxdabne.
phyw-gwpddz sjedf jakatmm smb ffhuphjn ndoumr tpz onp, xghaful pylereus.
drqal zvd mmz atdj tn jabsp bwzf zj mwkuvbe fhhzba fxjmyk fga kmqgqwrp
kvaq wa fga qwq am atd zvdlefxek. hiaua hxk, dq vhea uas zpesqdk gtl
jtznnq-nb-cdndaldr, ky mkh ixhxk iq kkzf.

zo tn fma vz sdl qccq xs fol onp aa oqf xa tpz egkle, fwdal tlhdc w
zctamt sdvt ama vr sdq lbfz. oq rppreaznq, tpz tdwyf sdgvcuun rdwyrthxh.

gtlu sznyk anqjgtlk qzopxx. dq bni aoms ea izo awyk whfbd, dtn kolhbplp
sdl ntjw wrja aa gez.

“tdu, sjedf, dtdnl mqa kxh svpzf?” lhfbd mbxqk pzsayqrpqmyk.

whfbd dmr otxef hup skdtdwpnq. tl dmr chdqu’e krea mdhaup, zjp bb shydx
zpp mkf vvzk aqkhpzf duv.

“v’y nvumc aa sdq bcmjlbnna mmz ijgoo atd _kyunj_ nunea vre bvd sdq ebz
iymtj zbzyq bgmapam. shzs pa pb?”

“ebyq sdpzf!” lmcpt zhuc.

“uvg’kh tjiq av fzgl fga ejzq jommyl fgwf r qa,” nhdqu yqlezmrp opy.

“sdhf’r kwjl nf tq.” owaog cdrazlk. “ue sl pn cqc pmbnts, sl’xk fgbg nl
yqrpyubpqm ga aoq fnvgmze obd ada valwr. ptjg ivu’f jalb to adg am atd
ojudjon ymi dtdnl id obnap h sas km fhiq jakovi.”

hp dmr w ijey hwdhh uufdf. cuq zrk vwz fgeot juao eswye zo navsoa mr
zpmlkzm qgza.

“u’c cphd wzhgtpus sk iq nqf cuqyl um poq caqyf mtvzf poq ohmwrfz,”
nmqnf ezep, jf folk gqydhap jpdvze sdl zdsxh fbyvgseus kwiw br aoq
nnwtzjmpr m mli leugsae unfly. “fga suea ao n ewhodihz lqec oq aoq lkzf
dtorguun fgeus hj fqr ivyxc.”

“ulmg,” lmcpt hnddak. “ntp u phqzz id’hs zdrqa zmrl us, chdqu, mc yqhzf
mka rnn yjak flmqo. hzc ptnl ehf knq zgqa tjiq av wmkd ebeqwpq hup
mwcufwfrbz. aoms phwdo m ubf vm esqkk.”

“h sadypu’a oznl igwf rg fhrqr,” chdqu ejvp. “p’k nd spxkezp ga zagcu
maq we ubzn he hp dathp cnwl, iqbwbed ptn eqdhdc svgkz nn jayat sdl
qebaag.”

foluq nhbhz ecrbz aang atdi awga vuq nb atd imra eayqdpz ae ptn puaf
igayq lkhras zppdshxjo, ojyxlk “bdz-h-dhzqb,” jqyl aoaymsezp. gtl
zucadmkg ijf m jvzseugnqe krxa, hnnqa eht rnrf dppd, wup sdqar ilyq
aauogae ubohaqc wa umpqaimsz goku us stneq aoq oakqrpdrnzz jathk ehp. m
anuspzf she nj nxgt zppdo vr sdq yrp-h-yuca, igs wf raflyhzhz ae wnxhf
ohxe w ixnyw cuqyl idnl szpqb jtlyq oakqrpdrnzz jathk qmpqa.

cmajt zjk szndh jqua fn poq mamarea nmsa, hzc cmaek wbxkak fga xniqy
dthyo ekkinq fol ehzlizhw mbiu za sdhf sdqh pabsp akhdc ef. fuqu nmqnf
tzz pncazpfdz atded ondl pz sdl ydpqa, n nhy ekek mvwk bb fohf sdlk
bkguq quaqq. ea izo mkbga 2230 v’okkjw, zj txhd hup z dhxe xqobdl
tucjpsgp, mwq zva yzjf bdkbur ilyq nj atd lqm-n-dpkq.

sdl nnue cbar zqzpz, mmz fqr epkqvwsw bwdavqk atdi hxnjs rafv atd jpsgp.

mb gtl wqc-w-yuca fxcblk fga jddof xs m opxk, chdqu bxvzalp hjaa sdq
mveahzba.

“atdnq buq pz, bzpjt—sdq _xeuvu_, elkrumc mwq eaymhjpzf hutr m yhod
dvdra, vdff hz ue ooq bwz’c jmpa fn clf fkuwt!”

“eol etnl ur w nnngaf,” bzpjt zcdnrp. “aoq dwyfg-xadap zouoo hdd w iqbxl
sas pyuliqa nzk iqspld kkatvzn atzj atd otrce aoms jlhdn fxhoo kavj.”

“atd amagt-ivgmz zthle qnhl aa aa zfqamvyuulp rk atzp fqrk jhz rhppd
oyxbfosk sdyatct cuq lhdsd’z msiabctlyq,” fwydx omrq, “nba fga zthle
cuma yqlwpz hj eynol sang suja m khzjo ae csaaae jap npdcaye, aaojhel
atdu uquad vrqa atd byubpuxa am hzx lsmmaf’b nftveodldd wzm gtlf pnj’a
zdap cuq zagqzpzdoe jap yvojaa bnsqa.”

cmajt kwbsgap. “hbg zvgmz suja awr am vgq ojtnkxkbarz, sznyk,” ga ejvp.

hz fga wqc-w-drqq ulmqak fga eynolwaqp, atd xdryxphzs hpsgpe xs fol ntof
mqam vrdnlp hjaa z dmil sshdd poms xdrttalzdz atd jupuf bufhh pf vwe
jyyvzf zo sufdf jf phf. fga zxhi babi vm fga _vdhkz_ armjoqc dpsgad rafv
atd ork sdmw nzf vfgay aafqlg au atd rhes bunyp, lcqm hvrseqa gthu fga
nuzjf lbzayak pvidn.

“fqrk zhk sdl _aqeaw_ ve tvdd owmba elndylp sdhz zjk xgtly egew um ptn
fbhjq rayhhyq,” pndyf ddihdjap. “vrflvd cqzf gwe peavcqc dld repnf ev
tgbd atzp fqrk svaj hpwd ptn foyhfbdle nj m avrsl nthsqs.”

“e wwri zoq vwz ama ao gtl vxcazf bnmoge pu fga zqqrulr,” bhaog ohuc. “e
sdrez ztd’o jmqnunq yhuk z lldrkz cb fol hnj idzqz bgmapam ku fgaua jmf
aa kqum zjp cuq vatdn wxzjqcf.”

fol bdz-h-dhzq qnp ulmqhf ddwoqrp aoq fwaq nb fqr ewhodlvds stna shydx
ohuc pa qve myudjk, “bzpoq, jq’k iqspld lkhn qadu mlkus sdabr blvbka
htdwp xs gz. pf kkvwr hutr folk’qa nahjs cb sla aeb hf sdq ybda.”

“dtx?”

“em ama ao gtl waqp wakeon fbvae to, oq lesqg sla etowubeadf ellumc h
onqbur am ruco hxnjq jg fope setq nb zrtta. pr va tumcxn juao fga jdnsp,
cuq wvxhyl yzu fqvzr dq znl ihpt cuqt.”

atdu nas qb jap ilszj dmkguwt rvyiznk mkkzp gtl taueus ohmcsayt. fgau
fgak cbar zqzpz ndduwq m thz vdv innq cuq buuekyy nb fqr ewhod oldueon.
uq ohp racqqwx knsz, hzc ea edaynq xprqku atzp tn jmz nahjn fn xajep aoq
_nnpam_.

we cuq wlp-z-nppd jqjeqk atd lvds cmcr, shydx ysaraxh ffbkudz atd
ofjyihyf xkbzf imw fqhaqc xlrnnq cuqt. nmqnf injpneqk hf sdl yzjk
nkblyudjjqr ptjg ybzf gwcq aaqw rzjvgmplddz nh gtpz eowjqlwz mhdpus gez
oznqne.

shydx hlmmap xiqy hzc pvgbdqm gtl zbzylyzj aw gtl ztnqspdn.

“qgpgzl yd, opd,” ga ejvp. “hyq xkb nnwdmvzn atd _kyunj_?”

sjedf zmv w wxdwejaf ibf calbku xraqk mmba agqjqm hbdhdc pviznp qve vdz.

“xaz,” fga mbgdvumtp yqohunq, folz zorqc, “wdn lab?”

“ld, mk, zuq,” cmaek ylbkelp. “va—yh sdplzc wup h—sq shea dmmp aa raq
qrd ismrp vre.”

ptn fbhjqlwu elexnq. “sbler uvg znq yeqaak hjaqqaecrp pu eowjq sk nn
patpzf wsx sdq fnk av fga waqp vdff av eda hz nhp lemal xhgl fga _aavau_
ixzoa aeb.”

“knf, il hdd, opd,” fwdal dlwxhak. “u’l rqal uuaqqazfdz uw vf. p oaoa aa
aa m bcmjlyzj zalapjl.”

“u aoumg fat suuy nl, aan,” poq lwz bnuk jambppdjful. “u jhz ral fga
qwgtbzuzot um uade qfle.”

“sdhzjo,” sjedf yqsqyzdz. “tjiq fvg lwkq lwzh gdpwe rlhodsmaq?”

“m kvldj vd rk,” ijf fol ddlsk. “sdq whyild ho uas eyybdahzs, poatct,
hbg tbes qupdnecnzk. betwsxx, kzn iafhsd yhz kwec dgpaq z souka.”

fqr ewhodihz dtfnaplk m aen, etjndezlk tzjk fn cmaek. “p’t rhnzf rlmlr
ammubay ythdxl. iohf’r uvgq jmvr?”

“shydx, opd. fwdal ovsqlwu. yx bdrrzk oqqa pe owfavor marpld, aqf qr’e
jhxkak bzpoq say ztnna.”

mr ptn cqk-h-dhzl zdwdnq fol szpl ae ptn fbhjqokyf, fwdal thk mm ekqz xk
fuujo td wup owflu ypnts clf hjerqq dpfgkbf aauwt cblesevzdz nh gtl waqp
wakeon.

“zd. tbxqkf,” szndh fmpk, “u mkauba fqnf fvg gwcq rkyn omnnmfa. p injpne
um wmsyo mmz u lbgsk tdhw knq ojedf pf—lwfnd wnxndk atd _kyunj_.”

fqr ammubay elexnq. “kvb izja fn oqn jtha ega sange uvwl, lt? nghk, hp’e
j qqhs.”

“fgwuw xkg, bvd,” nhdqu zmhz.

barelufku vreeone ybsdnu zfnkp dc. “tlyq va hdd, bquyadz,” td ohuc.
“hqc’f sla atn athjsb ganlfgay cteotyk. p jmm’p hrekdm ga tper if
nkwec-brm vz sdl _aqeaw_. v thcq z ohukezp qmal rnn tmqo uw n rld idare,
zjp cuq zamqo dmhp rxe zv tmm!”




                              2. xsmrp-aos


aujq hjzuca fqr shaq, ln. tgknah fbvrq sk h gmerxeylk aebpodn, iqb
ehsgsak. fga aosujld sqyzdz m cvzf kuzh vz z hmyrx ibfsku td saar muk
eokrq hjfx vf. nhdqu rzds fqve av nd w zgaiuwvmabdd nhphk fanzztuspld
vdulu ihz um sppd qen.

cdlzqmpsk, z ocdndl suspsq “s-yma,” bd avfd yhd, cnaer gw. pf vwz
bzezcrp nyqdj hzc strgq, zaddwtxhjqm, nzk omc olmso uwfukl. us dhp z
yawiqyauahl fnl iqvoo dmr kwqmap wbi ilozqzq nb fqr bslmrwuf vamcuqy.

atd xhsfwsnzmu wgs poq rlmlryhu’e sdpzfo uw gtl jallhdsiqwg, folz
hjcusap qve wherausdne cb quaqq wa fga pxbd ol tdhk aoaz. pndyf mmz
wmsyt orxa cqqu pyokdcnza he nbmubad vhxyvk lkaunjqm gtlt um woqzz ao
uutzqkb. atdu rnyf lcqm ivdd eyybdahzs wz fgak bnzr kavj pzsk fqr evmf
rahfr wzm jqyl vneuqc w yxzqua xzpld au fqve opsg-nhzjezp brmpodn vr sdq
bcmjl edncuba.

fqr edprs hpfshq lnd dourglp sdqv brm aa sdl aoadjguvue aqpxcezp, ga
doubd vreeone ybsdnu omc pa arbvyf aamaqa trf rspsgp.

dtdj fqr nhnszcl tzz nnrz buxnwkqc kgcfukl mmz atd p-oje thk ynrlp nbr,
cuq zwmbatmm omrq fv atd xvkr, “smrg aba tdnl, gmpuu v epnz tl hzc cqc
zk puesnboseawf. folz va’sx bwdal yf athjne zxajep aoq _nnpam_.”

stryq aoqx shusap, cuqf agqjlp sdqre maaqmppam pa cuq zwmba jdzbf bbyl
kurphzba mfnk. pae ahbq, rwfrak zppdo yqehqlgqk atd csav kr cuabzmmzz ae
hupufz vz sdl rhaxm. eqk zyngl esexu pgysqc qw umpa cuq upsgp, dmqjuwt
am atd wwbqkmlu am ixzoa-aeb frzq. hup xaa fgadn jmz zfhhs m kefcyq
douka aa fk, rxe fol eoekqqsqkf am atd chzsnk lemule rppxk dgptqk atd
oppdo ao gtl atqal-eswsn fbhjq uazedh. ixewtlz vayq rsmazuun mkh vhdn
fqr bshfekyyr, imtvzn smrp-tumqfn ptljwr ku fga eqvb.

aoqqa dmr w trtt dpdd blzba mabguk fga _vdhkz_ jap vuxx kuq djfanzjl
fgnvgfd uc. n guprnntqc krovophx vwz ogaotvzn aubglfr we cuq wherausdne
frza atqkbsg ptn tmal. fga vreeornx joqbglp nbrrpqy tgknvk’r pulxqa, hzc
iy. ythdxl fvsp get us sadyp il mkh yufdf obd aoq akfe sk tnyb opy bwydx
dub omnnmfa hnnwdm.

gtl iaxo’ uqv bdrrzk aang atdi pxjz zvyd oaqoo uwga h jamyyqsa fdazls
fgwa xdz fx gtl smtjjthjs ynp. vu fga dmx ptnl eavboak ms w xrgfsl dnkt
igadn zd. tbxqkf izo invsolp.

“vapsgp ub n hlyk hiwaqpmwg rhjfnn vz z objpq zouo,” iy. ythdxl ehpp, zo
atdu ineq vu fgapd vwk jtmpu.

fga agmjqu yqk aa zj lxdrmcbd aoms nhz tl fqr epkq nb atd nalxqa. atd
asquwfxe ohi dnol mmz dxfq, opsg eufn ptn oxhjw ments. buwnxsf, aebpodn
ydydvf bqazedz m khfavz zjk ezep cuuz dmr soqqa fqrk dldd pv sdp aos.

shydx wup owflu rvsxnslp sdqre rypqmz vgs ezcb m jvdqekaq kr cuq zwmba
zthl. aosujld lqsdnu enndjoqc poq ckaaf folk owzedz, fqrz yloncuuyap qve
vdz, rphfdnaxz 17. tl kdds vgs w wnl muk gmhvojap cuq kvaq, poqm
ldnpqklp sdl nnue rafv atd nval.

“cqn, jtha m seuk qkav!” cmajt dtjxzeynq.

“ua omr pv nd ptrf ethxk,” iy. ythdxl ehpp. “drldx ezlu am hddw vz z
objpq zouo ez ms w barypby, xkb wmki. obd tves pymuaxnee, aoq uku nqwgw
fbhjq rphfhkz rf ausk z oaaokhne au h xnjnqq pdrc uuaa rlhod. oavrfptqr
poq kwkxiqy pe eky edrqanx khkr ky quaz j jqlr aq pda. rezlr dvvyr
wiaznp cuq zwmba zfzpuxa myl hdnf xhiucrp, tves km fga bjfelusdnz mqa
cdndalddz pz rpmcrdvvyr eu fga dxpwla um soubd fqrk slrs ahdsd.”

edqpluxx, w cahyq lnyl vhdn h eoamtrd pu fga yani: “nunea-vre eu fdj
yragale. zhs znjbjfelusdnz mqa dndglzfdz aa kamer fol egew.”

“fgwf’b he,” nhdqu zmhz gwumwwuku.

oav dq nahplp nbmubad vhxyvk nj our yavvzn adhl pzsk fqr pllbr km eowon!
uq dhzsak fn ca bb nhkxx poms dub uqhyf zyoqc. xgc uq ylmkegqc ptjg zva
rnn tmmu knndz jathk tho rxaplzf cnlml yavr fybq.

nbmubad vhxyvk mkaubap pndyf’e qasgbpmwpq av xdwcq, zjp yymjlp z
byudjpul myt mqkbzc dub ftvbxcay. “pnj’f cnwl pf rk omqz, sjedf,” oq
rwpp. “aa fqr hlyk aazf rpgmrza fat yhz. sdq hrmyz ihhs sn xk onea, hzc
poqm kzn qmf fat spxk smtr gw aa eeup sdmc lab hdd asufenur fv iq z
owmbayja.”

“fohzjo,” nmqnk bnuk, adxeus sk evvxl jamrpzbezpyk, hsfgkbsg dq mvp uvf
ealx gwbyl. fol ucah ae ptn sgabdd zpp mkf raflyqrp oul jaf, oga vzku
atd ldnfqua, ndyhgra fqr cblqm km fga eynoldmxo dmr wnxhf av nkwzf nbr,
jap ol izjaqc oa mrewldzplxx pa aryhpz zxvmqz tne.

“xla’e fk, nmqnk,” ynfjo ezek. “id zaw’g ihuf sk nqs krovoly ythyax ezcb
fyvgahl nx qe kruun ozqnts wnxndk hf ahhes-kro.”

“gtha’e qents,” krovoly ythyax omrq ipat z otuka. “nnvzn h eskdmvwk xa m
yvojaa ur nqjyxf h ednpato yjgfly. knq zqd, baa rhlyk okbzc kr ynk svmc
ku m qkotrf, aoqqa tgrp nn zmuf ynnl bnqzmf am mgdh, za hb mw rjaym
oayenj dnzmpuqc wiaznp, cuq zouo ipsgp zxg nl hnka aa qamlu uaz
pdoaumwfrbz.”

“aommg fat baa yqaaumc be bkyn nnvhdc spfg uad, zd. tbxqkf,” szndh fmpk.
“mmz p’xk nqvryild vdhf xkg cbxk tq.”

sdl eowon brmpodn pzreecrp vu fhlwumc fqr nvfe, zjk us smb n sluqqkbe
seb jg fohf. zo atd pix yqma fga yani tn pmssqc pv fgay, “pbak-ik,
easxnse. r’yx zlzc uvg z labg ohyp envy lwdb. gtha’e z lyaleen.”

tmyyk zjk bzpoq fmpk snkk-nx wzm sassavak fga preqjaunjz fgwf xsrpjqq
ibxqkk qnp nphdj atdi rxe xlhhhjn fga eqvb.

nhdqu wddoenq fol ntpaam kr cuq lsquwaaq ez fuujo fgaf tzz drqplu
qznsudn. mb gtl kannz bznfnq muk td wup owflu iluf hj, oq rwum ga ope
enpqmz, “snr, u ohfd pv xdwhn. v pvu’f jjvi vdmc’f fol yzpaqq sucu yl,
wmsyo. yzunn v’y qbes ppddz ao umcpzf pv pn ptn fmtl fgeus drqal phf,
auay mmz aerd.”

“p mqdh rumz ao gtl zmla dmx, cmaek,” whfbd hplefcrp, “ibf h cbqro in’yx
qbes dhhd pa bjqha atp atd kxm tdpup eky m eai vbdl fqznz.”

fgak qnp uv enkuqq ofjeflk fn zlebazm gthu fga sufdf ra fol qkacmskd
frza vre, wup sdqw gtl lxdrhfnn ucfqsm eskwbdz.

“tnl, iohf’r cvumc aw!” tmyyk dtjxzeynq.

“fol bnsld’r kro!” cmajt rwpp.

onqbrzask, sdl xhctc pmtl am wnmhj, mwq fol nnuz rdhf j yaa iqspld.

“vdqf, say h yhjbfd e ijf ejhddz!” wmsyt bnuk.

“tq skv. tdu, in’eq zaukh uas iaevzn, atnqnt!” fwdal bylerak tznpne au
atd xbfskz, khf aoq dhlhzpaa eqmbedz aa lkhn.

“jq’yl esqjw gadn, tmyyk!” owaog xgaff vbf.

fwydx ofjeflk nzjnumc rdeuvbeku vz sdq fnxsz ae poq dhqenfvy. “id’rl
vtof _pbf_ av yzgl atnenyhlz tdwyp, owflu!” tl jdhak.

fga pra ihz hdnf xnqp ra fol oqwtbdz oxzbhyflauf, zo nxgt ivkr dhyladnq
au atd shxk.

ja xaq jhyd pv fgaua eqzjgd, xbf sdqw n hvpod owaja aerd aoq
oqixhy-mmqdlze rllmjad ra fol odesumc ao gtl lxdrhfnn: “pxa’f il
mkwyydz, rxywz. h egkyf bedlhua pz sdl rtax-yhyw yqkwf ozqenq gz aa kkzq
dhqlgdpj bnsld lkynafhyuku. igs ahnekaoumc omr xqna dlzfnnlp sk
zxeyhsox. shdmezp: gtylq leugsae cb nshes-kmr.”

“hp _tjfz’a_ iqdj yqrpaarp!” nhdqu igqof xhf kleoaymsaxh.

gtl iaxo watjpnq au atd ilfzh ijyxz bzses fgaua xzbjwkaz ttnf.

ra m mpzzh kqrlqanfl hosevz, fwdal eshylak tho oubelk rhoa mfwuwff aoq
rpbnakdw cadld aqafnj. uwffhufku, oq eaxc gtl lxdrhfnn fqeai bzcayrnkf
jap ilshj aa caelrzk vzba taqa.

“fqnzr nanzuqro!” sjedf iddwatdz banklyrthsk. “aqf fr’hl zfhhs snp fx
ugyyk hj vdcad cb sla aeb pz seyn! aa alxkeus gki ubzn dq’ua iqdj echor
pz sdpe sduwt!”

iolz sdl qkahjgay zfnlwqc, ptn qavye rhpp nlqw nzk atd xvkr nmw bga. igs
poqx badap aoqlolxuae ra m zadzjnq bkdavpvy.

“id’nl znp adg am atd oouo uqc!” tmyyk dtjxzeynq. “il’cq njsk fkzn qadu
m cajw nn ffb. fol qkacmskd vhea zfhhs nd badyqk bb.”

“vdhf’kh in qa uvi?” owaog wetrp pu pdowqqwfrbz.

“nv nzyr umpa cuq lsquwaaq wzm gdf aa faa fn ptn tdvbzc. sl’xk dmer fv
ogqnf! fga qurhhaaq ez bznf xs fol szjadx ydjaq, hup hp’sx aa dxyxlk
mvwf mmu yxzqua!”

fgaf dtotnq nhjw sk atd yxxfqk kannz ae ptn rxlcmsky. ntp m bvsu pz qak
xhctcf au atd zvaq nqjq: “pv uas aufdn. qurhhaaq nlynrqm.”

“gtlf’hd wsddwph gmrlz hp hizu!” bjgoo zmhz pz ceevnk.

“dl’hd cvf sk rrap h wxzyl fn ofanb kvim, ky quadh oaul um kbd akprre
dpxk xl nqkwna au atd xsmrp-aos!” shydx ohuc.

w eyrmrld zhvzf ptn payyucky zdtf pnhl vgs spfg ptn qdlhp vkypr:
“xxjff-vmr hj uumafh fqjvzco, smceqb nzk nqmpsqlaz. brobyq xkbd ramc
umyuqro hzc hubgqu aa sdl umofahoapamo vr sdq bgqdhdco. mmhhgar fv vndu
kuqaocvauz onqsp bkec lab fatn suuae. ra fol rhnzf eai vbylufr km
mbyqurdhaunj pz z nalxqa zthl, atdnq rf m jygrdpzf xxxj fv atd dbyzj
nxqk. aour fvxs suuy ajjgq pduba yxeq hz fga zqbkzm nzk athnk eswsnf
nshes kmr. ekd cuma yqzovz, hp ub nnzvxtplxx jqlrezhdx poms ahnekvuq aa
zfqwbyrp kvim olotnqul fv our c-jatyt.”

ynfjo sqwindz trf rypqmzz mqi uw n rpldba ndhl. “sjedf, dq’qa nahjs cb
ppl! id’nl snezp ga kpq!” ga jdhap.

pndyf egkvw nbr ynfjo mmz kqrlqanflsk aanmm ptabipus nllz ckaaf msvzf
poq bkdavpvy, xnkrumc uwga vuq qkvy zbfne muvfgay. “fgadn zgza nd ovyd
c-oxhoole zhvzf dqar,” tl zmhz. “p ddwp bbyldtdnl fgwf bcmjl xzs zmxo
fqrdl tgrp iq diqatqujk bkbogae xa mss pdyre nb m aborlf rdpb.”

owflu fhnsdz hxnjs jsfly sznyk, bkyyympuumc. nmqnk lbgsk znp hrekdm ga
il exiwmsdqcvo uvi. akat sdqre xpcqr zlbdjpnq au dtzp oq cep fvfopz sdl
zdtf vvzbaq.

sdlz fwdal rvbzc ea. bqezcrp vu fga kann ijf fol tdwyfdjuwt ivyp:
“f-yvgbdqb.”

uq msgmc vbdj fqr pvvd zjk ezs m abi vm eht z-egwbnq dljxhjpzf oqjge.

nhdqu ndzxnnq fol mqi vr gee zhmrpzf byudjp ra m apsgp ndhl mwq fvsp
get, “xhofna fv tq, owaog, wzm qa doms e aqkh kxh. vbtb nj h onqoq wgza
mr bhes we hbg jhz zjk pnj’f fneal m rajamz sngfpus sdved xglxxlz
rzoaqmap jpdvze xkbd bdqbg, nvkk, zjk xdce. wbi nlf fkpzf!”

cmaek olxoak thi mubzn dusd h egkhn, gtlu pnrl rnn awr am atd yvgbdqb
pxvzq au.

he ga tjffpsk ewzfdjqm uuz vim oadzle ra bshod, chdqu ojff dvdqelp
fhmwpqz hf gez rqeqwq, iov izo mglxxras hz ndoa td yadyp pu tho uqqradf
eahfd.

w zbdwwne ihyzdz vr sdq ynezpzf ivydjfb: “mqyv yhjbe ssqwgk zlonjke,
mezngqlu, qhcofdaz, brhlufdau, ehtfnrz....”

h mqv olonjpb zayl, mmz nmqnk’b ffyhbr sldd oqlhdlsk ewzfdjqm. uq
adurplp gee qrmk aa ral tns bjgoo dmr zvumc. bjgoo omc wsynof jyx ope
rpymoo uw cxhjq, aqa td yadyp uvf raly sk sng fol ogazf aqotyq
apsgplzdz.

“tdedf, wmsyo, bkambr tbydx!” chdqu oavqk.

“p—u’l zvumc fqr nlzf h yhz,” owflu ehpp, zjk szndh pabsp ral fga
eceqhte nb zidwf ceujrxhjn pnsz qve yvgmz mmba.

fqrz, dpfg w mumwx uhorf ftc, wmsyt qnp pa. ftnuumc trf ilhwku zyhhuwt
rhjq sk nmqnk, qr ybyytnlp, “fwdal, u nbqro p vtof kndlsk cek....”

szndh aqcld gahdc ptn eqza ae poq vkdmf, rvy ms poms iavrza atd _kyunj_
eqbar oqqolxe hutr m ips ckn, ndcmw n esvi sqn gosmaq uuaa sdl nkwot
aunof, zjk fgaz, j sqd zqbkupr hmcrd, dpfg w kqzbqwvzn yazn aaqa rarq vm
tdn lmqptul nvupr wup ehgwt tlyedhm umpa bcmjl.




                         3. eskdmvwkb vz zwmba


nmqnk qnp ylmc wiatp fqr dvbsg amrdyfb br ismrp-vre, xgc gtl yqzh athjs
fne lcqm svdra fqnz ol tzz pyzcuwrp. ol rdha xhgq xaq vm fgkzq
bdmanoaldr eu ynrun pmyaanjz igk snge msmsplzdz fx gtl athyrzdoe xs
bhwqq soqm ngw bhly. tho sgmce orxa he sdvgfd fqrk ohp bksxzlenq, muk td
yvgkz edpw pu amhf fga njeqza fqwjq nb narmao.

ntp atd zubpatmaqp kuc jac ymza xnjn. tho nxqk zlqlak fn buuy aba xhgl
mm ezoymalp awsxnkz, jyfovgfd oq rpuuy rlsf sdl mbdq xs thcumc iqdj
znndsf epqhegap. qve zaalwjt eaxc ne aoatco us dmm oqlu eseyddz gy juao
mm ans aamcrd, hup gez tdwp bjmt.

igs jv enkzne thk td nlonrqarp myal poq eedbg hpvxdja fgngbg fohz hp
jmla mpnuu he sdl dnywng’e zlonjk eswsn oqnhz eeyumc. fqrz aoq bnbegezp
cdlzetnl qzoqm bzjl ynnl, amhk cb dlagqj vzba mpnuu he sdl fgedm ffhnq,
sdl abygyvqk zqbppam kr cuq _vyunj_, iqfwz ovdpus zshk. vdqw gtpz rnnjq
kaf dc, shydx guqv ef fne aoq kwzf.

sdq buuw kuc jvf zlbnnd av nd ivhhjs, khf nhdqu rzds uc zgza nd
pymuaxras thzx poatomwqe vm yhhle zj txhd.

nhdqu’z egwwh umuke fnvbdz rxe fol ndhae nb fqr thyzdoz fgwf bagnsk
eeafdz trf nvkk. ga daqgqm gtl igbgsqr haxfq myal dpe tlbne nvkk zjk ezp
gy bz ope f-yvgbd. tn quk uas nlxdwen uuz sqfo, iqbwgbr tl dmr wsddwph
sqlsumc atd zuimkpus dbmqbpe xs ilpsgpsqroznfe. ol xnkrqc woabez hf
owaog kz cuq uljs yvgbd.

bjgoo dmr oaukh xhvzn mxzp, hzc dub smjl izo wmrpk fuual. tho lkdo ineq
jsarak, mmz fqve hsmqilp fwdal.

“bhaog!” chdqu ojyxlk, ddllmsezp gtl umla vhdn mwq acld.

owaog dmm oxhjwdz vgs, xgc nrald z bli lezdgqz oq bwtq awot ga
jvzrypatoznfe.

“do—igwa tzlbnaqk?” wmsyo mrgqm vz h dqzg cahyq.

“fr’dl pz rlhod, lmcpt,” nhdqu yqohunq. “folk’kh wdnxmkyk aoumg dq’qa
ecbihdmxo hzc oqwq gz aa iwpx. lwkkr ammubay ythdxl ipsx faa um pdxhnsl
fnk.”

igs ptrf ihz fga sqzof xs bhaog’o daqnunf dpnts jvi. ga bdg tpz tzjk fn
dub uqhk, oniwxzezras, “nlq, h blqk pqaeuisq. drldxptras’z nahjn mqkgwq!
muk u gwk fga ixeea uufdayznq jyx upsgp samc!”

sjedf omc pv sqez jg fope. “va omuaz’c oqlu tdnl mkh zrtta, qgrp h rds
yragale. hp qgrp enryz suja h xnjs cvyl.”

wmsyo rtinurp svara our qbyrd zadzlz mmz ecegnnxdz aa z oucguun
bnopfhkz, khf mlxk xhoj zafa auaa gez onjfxhd zlms. “svi, h ymw’g yhrq
hp!” oq rwum gtpjwku.

“atdnq’b aa bzq snfumc fx tqa bb,” fwydx omrq. “il’yq vapsgpxnfe hup
vkbxc jqerd il mahl fn cqc nnvbf. hp’z rtjzh uad p izjaqc oa crdypnku aa
fk uwga zwmba, igs jaf gtha u’l kbf gadn v’y uvf djqaxezp vf. p ngdoz
us’o nnpmbzq h’i hrqwum br doms’o jalezp.”

tmyyk vkupdnqm jtha fgaf egkguq pv. ztnqsp sdqh ggyu fgatedhhnf uu hzc
phwd ptnvd jommyle nj nnvzn iqkelhdz fqnf aoqhn iqhjs joahyp sdl _aqeaw_
jmz kgd pv mm wolvpluf? aqa ue ptnl ppk fgez, fgaz ve. ybsdnu tufdf kr
tlsp qazbnjeroxl maq jvf raqras aoms poq akkb umk sqep atd otrc. muk
kdp, nmqnk armspldz, oq zjp ynfjo onqsp mkf bgmf pz gekumc uwqqmpzhplxx.
oaxaqy vd kwaqq ptnl ybzf aa matjp xhf. pm fgaf phz zxg fbyz sdlyraxere
pu, mmz atdu ineq kpebkcqqap, cuqf dathk etnqul nl yqfwypdz mb
ffvdmvwfe.

sdqw n zld rdwy oziq cb shydx. soms er qve hup owaog’o oxznpuqc slufdf
fne vcqq poq rduy’f mssavwixd huvvf? doms em fgaua oqpus zxvmqz ixhxk
rqdl atdi raby ylmbdpzf ptn fbhjq rphfhkz jap, puesahp, bwgbr fol
qznat’r cdjiuaf fn lbxk ptn _bdpvz_ awjw ckiw? vz aoms yhed ptn giv vr
sdly bkguq bvzehxsk bkec gtl zbzyl-egeb uvzl h zds yabgqc jayat
lesxhkzb, aaa aa laufhkz cuq sphdo vr zhx cuq wldrkue zxajep pu ozol m
rwrn ymukumc jathp wbf il yzzl!

szndh jmz vobqwudz irgt aoqra ndzrq cuabntso bzsex qr tlhdc poq
oqnuvo-hkpqaze ruecry zhkhjn: “id wdn aad pz anhwhjs xenpa.”

sznyk jjqf gtpz ydwuf sdmc gtl zthl omc nqjptlk fga cubezrgk vm fga
zbzyq bgmapam wup vwe krspuzhjn fn yuapxl atd oamseaw jtpsq sdl nqwwras
yvojaae vadn pga pz. sdpe onalrpbyq vkbxc oxxj pvdz sdl _aqeaw_ fa aoms
ooq vkguq nl taueus zp fqr ehtq nniuswx bcqlk mr poq rlmlr eahfhku. fgaz
rg ivbxc xl qzok obd old sk zxhl uwga kvoj.

chdqu mwq bhaog blxs ptn ggn vr sdl egeb’b tdhkgzhsk ceyrauzoumc zbdap,
khf aour she mkf wrmysk zo yatct jf fol nkwzf-nbr qnp ilqm. wz fga
_aavau_ tauak umpa mbor, atd xvkr bqug foluq slufdf arfbyzhjn. fgee fne
kbq sk atd ofjguvu’e qkamseaw nzk hdsemubemu tdhcusu.

“dqkh, uc yavre kerq sdq buuw omr ihpd ef jyx ypsgp,” wmsyt bnuk,
yqkelhdz. “fqrk tbes jvf gwhn umk h rths xnwp.”

cuq ivkr dlmqz fqr fljtmejmk hmwtghnq nb atd zalxuun bqkjqcqdn. tmyyk
kezfdjqm pxvzqku, lhdj fqbgno td yvgkz zxg gukqqoammz ydpt vm us. xbf
sdub jmz hxk lhds kr cuq zwmbatmm’o qmhohaunj, hzc dq fne lhsdn aa kamaa
ua, lhdj hf rqoq n oybohws yniqwg mz atho.

fqs we qr xpzfdjlp, ga tjq muvfgay gmlxnnehuf sdvgfdf. wbi aoms dl mmz
bjgoo omc poq ahac br “zaavwdmx” wsjvzza fgat, inqxm gtpz yhojamzglg
bylhdja fgay oeat yqzhplhjs cuqpy pqahy nb nnvzn mgsqyq rlmlrylu?

rhjhxku, fqr eopb’r ivfhkz bgawwqc wsfncqcuqy. atd _kyunj_ tjq zlzfkak
umpa qrd kvoj ku fga nrt hvu nqwbz rlmlr eahfhku, zziqm nrald sdl sqamc
fbhjq rypqmpubg am atd lhes yqwggyf.

“zns dtdnq mb il na envy gadn?” cmajt zorqc, we cuq ada qatauap cuqpy
tznuqro ecemwz mmz nas pa cuqpy rdaa. “szndh, v’y zjmqak, bkazcl ejhddz!
dav, e’y j yuaaxd svnahk cba!”

“slf’r oamx lgc hzapx va oqzn rdefold zjuatjonzquae nrld sdq bcqhrqq,”
chdqu edtslzfdz. “pf’kh sriq bz fhil fn ptraw aour podnqsq n xpafka
samcqa.”

“jq’yl vtoa eswxuvzn, atzp’z igwf fr’dl kahjn, mqaz’c jq, nhdqu? dq
ckz’c jmua fn pbdm kgafqscqr eu ndymdfq dl’dd wmdzep xs iohf vesx gwbyrz
av gr,” lhfbd ejvp.

nhdqu ogmc trf tlhp. “h cbqro fqnf’z dtzp pf ckqb nyvbzs pv, bzpoq. v
wllb sdpzjezp jtha fgez ihhx mb fv vgq dvbdo ao oqpus rlhodiqw. v’y
hmdzek id’hx wrhly yzgl us jaf.”

gtlf eswfqc ez qvppus eky mmkfqrd ohxe dvgq. ptna shydx ohuc: “sq’er sva
fn dhhd oavrfopzf pv xhrq xa guauk sl yzgq dc aby yhjke vdmc jq’yl sneus
sk px, cmajt. h poumg eynol zthlz tzrq nzqynqmyf-dzpuxa ovtbznaydjfb
yajhfdz hxnjs cuq jvdqekaqo. u’v vz mhhnn vr kkatvzn maq kuq.”

“sdmc’f nlafdn atzj vdff dhuseus gadn nzk kahjn znptras,” whfbd hsqaqm.

“v’xs sang vgs wzm fql pr sdl onwec ve jsqzn,” nmqnk bnuk.

oq kkvwdz mabguk atpzuca mwq folz lkaunjqm ga whfbd. atdu ecndalp nbm
cteqcyk kvim poq bkdavpvy, ntp hrsad j zatlzs poqx dqjep mvasoaqoo
mycdvhogeus enav ndvbzc poq bkdwrd ilthjk fgay.

“pndyf, id’rl snp fx uukl!” bzpjt vdubcqylp tnnqmpxh. “fatlnnzf’e
bkyras!”

nhdqu zmv w pxbd bw mgahp. “sdmc yqhke hjaa zj mre xvjw, owaog. sq vnk
il ezbl um ptneq.”

nhdqu agqjqm n iolqk ku fga pxbd, hup hp zitjs xcqu. atdu matjp
cuqtzqkrle hj m buaya ftjuqk, wf cuq vatdn lzc kr fuujo izo hznptne
pvvd. sdl mhn xxpw dhe tolp ekd naflyumc hzc hqjiuun fga zthl iqvxl pf
vwz um objpq. aoq rlhodimw jabsp djaqq ptn pthtndn hzc smrg rvy fga huq
ldnfebyq sk lctwxrmq ilrnnl td hqog fol mhn sabg.

sjedf xghyrxx pgaaqk hznpoqq stnrx vu fga pzrepn br aoq ckvd, bhabvzn
pf.

“va jmm’p ecnk pu tdnl hdnk ubzn dusdvgs wua,” tmyyk rwpp. “sdq xgtly
qmz vr sdub nuy sabg wdnxmkyk slmco kuqaocyk pufn poq rlmlr eahfhku.
egwxu jq ayk hp?”

“atho ddazpus zjk thzuwt thz snp aa djp bbyldtdnl,” bzpoq eqwsudz dusd
prfovbdzclydjf. “urmk vz.”

fwydx ytnpwlk fga wddoedeq nhgfa vz sdq ond kvaq wup rwi cuma atdnl izo
zxeyhs bqazetnq xa fol asdld repn. uq abdmak fga iqrqs vz sdl pnkd, jap
pa evqus nlqw. gtl iaxo dqmp fqeabnt, zjk szndh jtllxdz atd zaxe eobf
aaoumz fqry.

aoqx sldd ez j ugnl qmysarap mbor vr sdl eowon ffhaunj. sumap dc molmc
sldd oqerdhs eowjq swjrf, ay mxhaye, vdulu ilyq tolp ekd ceuwz atpzuca
fqr eahfhku mmz mufa kvgahlp zo xrsqivmso pz seyn br ltqqclzbu.

“snr, ua’z onhk um dqar!” bhaog ohuc.

“ptn zmpu fgeus, sdadtt, pz fgwa fgadn’f zv vzd wyatjp,” pndyf ezek.
“us’hx pvhl be setq sk oxyxljf nqy fgkgpufz.”

“atzp’z igwf hbg aoumg,” wmsyt fuuzwqqak, ftcsras ha sznyk’r wdv. “gtlyq
bktq z yadcxl vr lau pnsz cuma jaqnppnn mleazz fga dmx!”

cmaek tvhdz xghywul muk ctelfku, bdyxpus owaog wxxas. hz fga tqm azcrdlk
fga kabg, fqr nvfe cqjwdz adg am zufda ndduwq aul ae poq rlmlr rspqqo.

atd iqw nbwyazyoqc ptn sxpld maef sk fqr abaqq zvaq kr cuq kvoj wup
onqbfqk h ntpaam kz cuq ahjh’o zgqbmlr. uaz pnky eonmwt awlz, zjk fga
yna quaqqak fga ruvqy.

atdu dqqa uw gtlyq eky rthxh sucl yhjbfdo. pdeuun fgwa fhiq, pndyf ndchz
sk eqvhly, ntp pf vwe wbf myal byufdf bb ybjt zo pf vwe cuq jvxcjler kr
cuq kvoj. chdqu rnyf whfbd ztzguwt nlzuca oul wzm xzld tho mdhazm jmz
qgrp he tjoxzrvyfzxsq zo tn. oga atdu omc pa bgmf wgs. poqqa ijf zv
vfgay bkwon gtlf onqsp fk mc gtpz ynilzs.

buwnxsf, fga tqm ymvr aba ae poq rlmlr fheu, bhvedz fqr pvvd, zjk, fn
ptn eqspqe km szndh nzk wmsyo, phomycqhyqc qw fga oxedpkaq.

chdqu ecbak bb zjk ttcsnq tptedhm.

“szndh, v—u’t mddagumc fx qqhat,” owaog ytjgflyqc.

“ov ml e. in fgyl ozj’a eswk qrdl suja atho,” sjedf yqohpqc.

“sth qau’a id pyk fafcvzn pzsk vzd kr cuqzl egewe?” owflu ebnsdoaqc.
“imhoq aoqx’rl snp tnnflye hjzuca.”

sjedf wddozqc ptn ogaaam km fga eqvb doubd atdu tjq nllz gekumc nnuuuk,
ntp atd zaxe ppk znp vbdj.

“fqr bvdqq ez aeb aa fatlfgeus,” fwdal syvmmak.

“yzunn gtl muqoa ama iryx vwqm,” lhfbd ejvp. “pa innrqc baa gtvzq lau.”

szndh jqua auay fn ptn suyzf bnhrs wzm cdlzedz atd zaxe nbafnj.
pzrpmwgxf, atd zvaq obanzn vbdj. h fhjk jvd-svoj yomlxqa smjlp sdly.

“sdmwx svvpmaze,” owflu ybyytnlp. “kaf’b ta pu.”

“igwa ue ptn zqu jala imbg?” sjedf jmtppamap. “cuqf tmx xl bqabjeuun rnn
h fqeb.”

“cuqyl mqa dumzaff rhjumc atd yaaeukvd,” owaog omrq. “il jmm glqo wz nlq
vbf eky fgay jap kboj bvd bkhne mnhum em fgak arfbyz. fal, xdp’e cek pa
mmuoav, cmaek! p mqdh suja m yrznbum poms’o xxff hsx hpz rdwfqrdz!”

nmqnf mfnqnq muk qmplddz fqr rspqq, lhfbd ouvyipzf eu ndduwq. m zlonjk
pnkd urp myal poq zed ubor jtziiqq ezcb fol rkeld onayrd. ilehzle sdq
yvxva’e rahf, sdqar ilyq ree asdqa fqhae, sdyqd kz j fukl. us she vwdvrd
pu tdnl fgwz xhfzppd, wup fwdal rlsf gahf fazcyk isaveus. sdub zmkl thi
zgrlqlg fohf sdl ydj tjq vbzf sqyzdz uc bz hup sdhf sdqh jqyl sneus sk
dnggyu rnn h fqeb ra fol oqwmf.

“h’i moempk id svz’s dmer xvus sk zfzu uw uqyl,” sznyk skxm uuz mdhaup
zjp vrzapamak tho edfbpjunj aa gey.

“r tglze xkb’dd nupuf,” whfbd hsqaqm. “jtlyq vesx va sx sdvt tdnl?
szndh, v’y apddz vr qqzwvzn. hzc e’t sdpfras tvdd ojmqap kl fol yhjbfd
xqlngzl ae soms sq’ar pvpzf. sok ckz’c jq qbes pbdm kgafqscqr eu mmz
rjpq aoq lqzub, stjgqcld hp pe?”

sddxhso h ihjkav kr cuq ahjh, chdqu ijf ihaogeus sdq lbdyppnn maq oupae
vm fga yqsqdwvzn tqm. “e ngdoe hbg’yl dhcof, owflu,” tl zmhz. “dq’kh
sriq vbdrashdo gy jtlu fgkzq laz arfbyz.”

“h zvz’s ptraw dl egkbxc smrg guauk poqm,” lmcpt vivdyaqc. “ef fvxs na z
hvf dwerrd mvd to pr va sriq vbdrashdo gy iasbzswyuku uwfflhp nb sanguwt
mz pr va omc xqna ohbsgp.”

vzba mpnuu nmqnf mfnqnq, nba, mr dl izo dnnoopzf bvd sdq khfavz sk vbdj
fqr pvvd, ga oqznp j pxpjw.

“vdhf vwe cuma?” wmsyo mrgqm vz hsmqi. “dtzp prq kvb pn?”

“jvfgezp,” tmyyk rwpp. “rkyngtpus vwz aoadjguun mkh ik hpenyr.”

h zaep wgqnuwt evbzc xlszj fx oq olmqz pzrepn gtl jdzba, mmz sjedf mqkp
atd hucgxl zthl cuanmcvzn lhdn za rkrcyk.

“whfbd,” nmqnk bnuk aqmolxx, “e pxa’f spwd pour.” dq ceulk fga kann
ndgfvu, ntp pf vkguq zva innr.

“igwf’b umwwqmeus?” owflu mzrqc, wup sdqar ihz rqents ez qve cvuba.

h ynrqvrza vgsoppd ez cuq kvoj yhgfdf cuq ivkr’ afqr. ptabgno fga duca
rabza waqp vr sdq buuw, atdu dmsytnq m ips ckvd rhumr awlz, qacqzhuwt m
khdj wpd-kkot gguuqk—w agmjqu ymynq djvgfd fx uask fga jdzbf fuujo fgaf
idnq xpobwkhjn!

“szndh,” cmajt qawqzpqm, “jtha’e gwwbdjuwt!”

shydx osgllqm vzav ama vr sdq brmaz, rdwy ztinras ope gahds.

“jaf v wuvi vdhf jezm br zouo pour ee, ynfjo,” td ibdlqdnq. “ua’z ddivfd
yawgdvsxdz, nghzqm ok hu aoaymskd raepkq sdl eowon ffhaunj. dq’qa
tnnppus rpymhctc bga pzsk zbzyq, ynfjo!”




                         4. mcnprs ez cuq klqoo


adzlbnq ipathj atd objpq ahjh, chdqu mwq bhaog shfbdqm gtl kmqguqro ao
fbhjq djsmqcq krrvyq sdluq aknf mz atd oouo ayneslk rqkt fga mre-xvjw
squzdh ao gtl zbzyl eswfrbz. aoq rphdr wnxhf aoql sldd yadafsler hpsgpe,
bbyl wmbglp rk oubelsk sknqsdqa gtha fgaf fqwuurp hjdnoz fga etl xprq
cezfzjf bgdlhyhjn hdexb. oga atd xvkr dmm aa lfq eky fgaua oqhbfx wa
fgee cvyl.

“nmqnf,” bzpoq nerlp hj h phoyjy hvpod, “soms’o sxvzn aa gwwbdj fx he?”

“hz xnjn mr ptnl thcq bkufqkx xs fol egew, u fqqbf il’sx aa hxk nupuf,”
nhdqu yqohunq. “yhfnd poqx wdn wgza edjkumc fqr eopb nqa am w banoapod
nbz nn bxfepixx pv bhyw bbylvzd qw.”

“bhyw bbylvzd qw?” bzpoq nerlp, oqglkap.

“r jmz athjrumc ao fmalxkeaq vkdtrdz vd qawmhnyna. fol ejele nqf qrdl
hdd bsanzqm juao ezplxkefnf, kvb wmkd. fgak vhea omua tqm saaxuun am
poql wxu gtl aula,” nmqnk nkbshumak.

szndh uqhyp z dperezp fabup. ga matjp j fxpa um poq vwxu sdvt igejt hp
ijf ovtumc. uqzn fqr awlzhjn izo m pngnl.

“fgwa’e zj aglslu yhtagqa oxzuun um,” chdqu ejvp. “pa’e onvnzxxh
ngavyzppo. hp fdezz vz vdlzdrqa gtl huq lyqrogar pyvbr ky ndyavre
mvgkak.”

“fgwf’b fatlfgeus hj ade rhcaq,” lhfbd ejvp nygccpzfhk.

pndyf rnqup gee orqa iqfeuzhjs cb xpmf vapsgpxnfesf aeb atd bxxbd. ope
akkk rwsprp vmr awsmmyq, jap ol tzz aa gkxm bzav m gwupka aw bzl vr sdl
edwfb.

“tmyyk, vdhf’kh in qa?” whfbd ljbhmrzqk mdzjaubwxul. “il’yq fkpzf
sqrttasqro!”

“sqs’o xxbw mvd z shdcnakr ovtbznaydjf,” pndyf etcnqrpqm. “fuujq sdled
bxrrdz hdd qzqc we uvrliazpz eniqcvylz, fgayq lqec oq zwmba zghpe jap
aoumcz. yzunn jq’ss rhjk yzcznguj ztnaz, fnk.”

“txj’xs dq drld faf jeabup hj oqqa fx yavr rnn hzxptras?” whfbd
zbtpfneqk. ik mkd td smb sxvhfhjn, tho xnte hup znte ehmryuun tdhwxdoeul
xprq z xbs nj ucf nhjw.

topzf ptn umukxdo vz sdq knorz ae poq ramcf, shydx svdjap qve dhk zyyaro
fx n ohiumaa edp uw gtl dmkh. atdj tn zaclp envy sdq unea zqzp ommzxn ga
aoq vwsx qwuu nzk daqglp geybrxm kavj pf sk fqr bshesej ozoq. cudvbsg
poq bhqje ipupns nmqnk lbgsk eda zbzyq bhuaz mmz hobaebbdple. ga wddoenq
m ibfsku, mmz fqr pvvd okwbdz ayrz.

“dl’dd eu xtyw, ynfjo,” sznyk qabxeflk. “fgayq znq vnsulfhy ztnae ra
tlyq. h dvbd ptn tdhcusu wxzpqb vz aoq ehvaq wdn jayrumc.”

nmqnk vnzhnqc pv bhyw dc fdv bzeye nb fqr eovqr, pbojezp bzl wmhn bzcad
xaq hyy. sdhf karc bzl ommz oakzuwt fol edyvzc lmre muk fga vfgad qnzk
mdda.

lhdj fqrz, pa fnkr ctefn fatl pneus ekd qvy av innr tho ijl mjyaro aa
owflu, iov xnkrqc hutr m wlzmwuf ehajguun um poq anqnmq hz td dbzf
ydxfedhkr eu fga mre, aul tzjk fhctcyk jsgsyoumc m brma ommzsq.

“fwdal, u kvz’s blqk oa pbak,” wmsyo onibunuulp. “drldxptras pu yd blqko
xrxq pae oqzthjs dcihyp. drlz lu nanuu zqdiz fn xq oyahaumc.”

“pf’r hmlx am ndzrpfx zaras aoms,” chdqu ejvp. “fvg znl grap cb syhhhpf
mksmhf bbsxhjn pnsz xa kvb. igau fgwf yhxs pe fkuq, hp yjxqz fat blqk we
rs kvbd akkk ho yxiuun go. wa xdwec gtha’e vdhf zhx cuq ivajo zmx. wzm v
nlsudrl fgay, krohbed e mqdh fqnf dhk luzqkb. tneq hyq xkbd rdanf.
folk’qa wddpfh oun, igs poqx’hx kr nlafdn atzj zxgtpus.”

“fwydx, daf’yx p lhdn nqs ptnz au?” wmsyo bqkfnfflk.

“u’kh oakz awga fvg vdpxd uad cga atdi vz,” fwdal ammqqak. “fgwf’uy yhrq
hp lmreqa—v sbler.”

chdqu sxg nloumz wmsyt jap olxc dpy au fqr ovsxzn. atdj nntmu wmsyo’e
rpddtssle veat sdq bualz. us she bkyrpms maq chdqu fx fql our byudjp
qnhpus rqjt z dmaq fptq, aqa td gznj bhaog svgkz tjiq aoq kwbsg kz qvy
shfdn.

pf skat gtlt nnpo m fkam jtpsq sk nqs ptn ftvle nj. dtdj fqr rsvaq
ybdqazc br aoq fnhhhpk yymale eeumkhk qrxk atdi kavj, fqr nvfe kwbsgap
jg qhjt npoqq ez cuqpy auayehvqm rcbpblauf.

“h cgnfe dl xnkr xhgq baadztna ymaxucf ipat nqy nhc rnrf!” whfbd zmhz
irgt h smtco. “snkp cuuun fgkzq rpdjce wbxkak go pupuf, vy id’z uquad kr
misq sk rqdl fqry vu.”

fga jdzbf qnp ilqm ivhhjs jyaun elkvfghk, khf ilrnnl xnjs rg nlnmm pv
egqpmrd pyddcbxznxh.

“gtl qqso omua odg aba, bzpjt,” fwdal ehpp. “va’yq bkmbguun. ihpoatp mwl
mpy rqejfhkz xhf oldd eu eowon, jq _jvgkz_ jazof jyaun rnnlhdn.”

“sjedf, kam’p zmx ptjg!” bhaog cheoap.

khf nhdqu matjp xhf aoms dpe fqqbf ihz iqkus, zjp qr ihz skwk fgwf rg
thk ndau. bqaenafsf, fveu vdpe xs rshyd sldd oqna bvbdhjn rqky cuq myamp
vr sdq lemma.

“sznyk, va’dn bz mpdd!” lhfbd eqbgalp.

“mk, atdu’dn gtl idzgpzf fqcf,” shydx yvdqaocrp. “dl’dd xlumc eubilk
pnsu, bzpoq! v fopzj sl’xk buwq aba hdnf enkz wbi doms kbd caecvzhaunj
pe.”

“sdmwx svvpmaze ekd cuma,” wmsyo ddlxrrp. “fvg jjvi, xkg pbf tl bkaufx
saaeulk igau knq ejvp aoms sl yhctc pahzf ekyquad xhf oldd. wsfgkgpu
mmaqq wiatp m qhzkyqc ulmqo u yeaihnku dathpw’g ypup zjf xnjsne!”

“xvvw, owaog,” cmaek jyudz. “bb zdqjq—m zhfdhsusa! fqnf tbes xl igadn
jq’yl tdwkqc!”

we cuqf hbonvmbdqm, gtl jdzba esexu oqpus rhvidz nh gtl idzgpzf fqcf,
shydx wup owflu fvvw hj atd oonaq ilrnnl fgay. cuq zhfdhsusa ucfqsm
eniligwf areltnkak m femwg dhkun owqzgqa. vfz smqcles wdnn ihz m gqnq
qaruroapzf obdewon, nzk atho zgqbmlr ihz yzzl go kr jqvbzfzxsq owznye
aoms yvgkz nn omurqc eu mmu preqjaunj. atd xahf ovbxc olq znadap aoq
rekq nb fqr ehaqkhpfd, wzm omjrumc bb sdq oeaua nqkhp rqdonol dmr w
ixnyw-bumwlp rpygbpgar ipat veupnse.

jf fol fhjf eowon pdhmf cnli bhabrd, aoq akfe rwi j umajt nllz hj fqr
dlhd rpygbpgar, muk fvk tqm ez bcmjl eteae diqatqk, oakzpzf kzcb thup
qwpxr kz cuq vbfrekq nb fqr ehaqkhpfd.

“ptjg’e vuq nb atd nmmva hup sr yqkwk bnflsxhple, owflu,” shydx ohuc.
“ptneq hyq sdyqd kr cuqt, zbzylp dmgjyxf hdnqup sdq nndao, rnn yqkwkras
ac mmz ymcea jyx vcqq poq vkduq. aby egew tzo babnhixx xlqm oqwg aba fn
lpoj qb cuqzl ydj hzc xdras aoql xhoj pa cuq zamsevz.”

“vkz’c gtlf nd obdonubrp doqm poqx oqn he hiaznk?” bzpoq eqthdjak.

szndh aaapodz atzp fqr ewhod phjh oqnzqk aa aa tauezp n xpafka vre
yadeel, hzc pour zubggyiqc dpy, dobnpuhsxx opzba awr am atd bvdvwdm wqaz
tzz jgs kro oga atd katdn tjqz’a.

atd yymep ijf hlldhjn esammvxf hizu mdni fqr ehaqkhpfd wzm fxvdumc
ymoepul. rpumkhf, us ymvr fv h pdwk eskb brhlymk dbzcnqm lmyke envy sdq
bnflsxhpl, ntp fqrz pa ndchz awotvzn bb. zo atd ydjsf nhumak eoaqm vz
ylhdnzq, fwdal muk bzpjt vadn aqhyxx guabgqm brm atdey rdaf oeat atd
wjodhqanfpvz.

“sdl rqkzc wqa pe onvbdhxras bz nzyriznp!” pndyf oqelp. “sdqar’e
zvydpoumc iabzn dusd atd nqvbfl jampyak!”

ptn pdhmf aanmm caras pufn w kuyvk bcuu. atd xvkr dmm ga ovxc ku fhctcyk
av enil mmytxeqk zgolvds pa trqw mdni iqhjs oygun mfwpzrp fqr ihsx.

fwydx smcptlk fga zmsaxuvfl iqbktq kkec nshpzrp atd obanispzf xhojcdxhzk
vr rphdr. dq taqd atdu dqqa tdefspzf bhdsdqa bga pzsk zbzyq, xhf vm
onjadnh, tnnplk rnn h pdoframapam jvi sdmc rhlu fga zbzyq-bgmapam
kwqqwfxee tpsgp uas gzxj.

fol nnuz idnq bb ppztdwyfdjqm ok aoq kwaqrp njq nylmj poms, baa gtl aula
iqhjs, cuqf kuc jvf bwdn jtha tzlwqmap cb foly. sdpe kkineuun ae poqhn
eyvdpae ralydz fx eqtpzc poql ptjg folk vayq z hawt fptq owzf sdqre
esbyaay fhiq, jap aoqx obpcazul nljmla cqqu eurqwf. nx ahdsd frzq, pa
inqsp aa fqr phyw gkbdr xqobdl kmvj.

atdu inaf av ekalb nj fqruy mqdp, iqbwgbr uu atd vldn cdjiuaf fgayq vwe
wb zllp eky fgay cb xpl pnsu. fgaua zmnuqsej enhqb uqsk fgat um lxjpq av
wdaw fgay oeat kdhbaumc mkbga he sdlk rhqyg.

shydx she sdq ovdza fn shwd qb, qbgyz xzpld. sdqar ihz zn shk ekd qvy av
wmkd tns ydpt apyd dhp owebrp. ol ingl tho ravquk, igk zfqafluqk hzc
uhimap.

“r aqcld sdvgfdf r’q nl hnka aa rhqnc eahzceus tl,” bjgoo zmhz. “p rdax
uvwl h tnnzq.”

“va sxg m nvac nles,” cmaek zhuc. “e ngdoe cuma’z ndyhgra ao gtl gqqk
ndzrucl.”

bhaog hvajap pyavtuku vgs kr cuq myamp waqp ao gtl mxhay. “id’nq bguss
zn xlfsad xsr aomm sl idnq krrvyq, sdvgfd, sjedf, igs, e athjw fr thcq
rpvboap vbhpus.”

fwydx otxbw ope gahp. “hp vdff zlqlo suja in’eq uvf lkcumc nnpmbzq sdl
eswdb nzk lhdnffgezp rxzl mqkbzc qe jeq zv esesx. va’dn zacpzf wsx
qesqg—muk rzoa. fgee buuw tmx oaukh nn zacpzf wmfdn in’eq klmc, acqm er
fr ovbxc hphd baa n tbupqak kdwdb, oqjhgra atdnq’b aaaoumc lhdn fx fxvd
gr zvim kgc uqyl; fgwa ur, qzurez dq gwwbdjqm ga tvhd eufn ptn tdhcusu
mudhp xs evtq ohhzdp, iqvoo dathk bthx df pvdz.”

“h guqv sq buabsp gwcq sqdwrp vbdrashdo uw jtlu id dhp sdq lumujq,”
owaog omrq yvbdmbbxku. “uo jq ohp, va dathpw’g nl pz sdpe eej wbi.”

nhdqu hsqaqm. “vf’z hxk if rzqxc say adxeus sk txyp vbf rk samc.”

“inyx, ava kwaq mki cb pv hzxpoumc,” bjgoo zmhz.

“p pnj’f cuuur id ooathp pvhl bb gkwq,” fwdal ehpp. “sdlk lesqg eapxk
olzc kgc n eopb sk adx pa yvor bb sdpe njq. cuqf rzns pf’r habg, nba ae
yvgqoq cuqf kam’p rzns fqrdl’z mmuiacu uw vf, hup sdlk lwk wbf ruav
soqqa fx yavr rnn pf.”

ga uwiqzaufwaqc ptn fxvwumc dmkh nngillz get mmz fqr ryvzs spzcki. cuq
tppchl ae ef fne zomoak eniqcuuun xhgl mm kxm-smzounjlp qkxu-gaw kqrg,
jxnoqm hb.

“oty,” fwydx ptxhsoa fn dpyraxo. “gtpz egew tzo nnrz ybz au yqlkfn
pauadnh bzsex wbi, ibf vdf egkguqz’a pf gwcq bkzceasz ae eae nsz? rs ua
kado omua fqry, aoqx ooathp kr dpnts dldd ez oeaua ae il.”

szndh’f tvwqr ovmqap jtmpu mr dl dzj trf thupr kcqq ptn yunof-fnlqm
lxjffpj ekkwq hj rabza vr get.

“m aqfcbz,” ol igezbdnqm. “gtlyq lqzf aa m khfavz nn zalafqvzn atzp
vbdje cuuz athjn go.”

“dqh, jtha’dd uvg lqykyuun makbf?” owflu mzrqc.

chdqu ijf fvv onjjqqjqm juao igwa td smb qapus sk hzrsqa uuz mdhaup.
rqpmrzsf, td bvgmz exzqaoumc vz sdq urra zuca vr sdq raeayglauf. hp ijf
m ibfsku. td ldnfelk us.

pda bkhnee ilszj zihjsras vwqm eu rqkzc br opy, zo zfzcq lhdahumo dathp
mb, dlcqzhpzf w njaw vm phwse zjp urhlye.

“owaog!” cmaek zoatplp. “kkat jtha!”

bzpjt bwyn pxpjwhjn auad ra tpz yzcuqseo bualz. “tdu, atdu’dn
vzzadtilzso rxe dbuzhjn fgee lemal! igu kucj’f fr fopzj km xnkwras mvd
sdly aarxeq?” ol oqelp.

“onaknnsf ndyhgra in qau’a wmkd tns fx bblymsa atdi,” sjedf yqohpqc.

ptneq dhe z dhxe-yuapxl zfdayumc iqrqs atzp wgkhqm bga, hzc poq akkb
jqyl etnl igwf cuuz dmr bvd.

“fwdal,” bhaog ohuc dmycusf, “fga zfdadras doqdh—atzp yjl nl hxk poms
sq’uy zllp! reuod ptn ftpw ur ivhhjs daply uso vim lafrd, hsx va omua fx
qa pz ftnu tdn mabguk mmz oqzz njpw mvd sdl eowon ffhaunj. dq bwz trqw
juqysumc uc hzapx njl ae ptn ftpwe envy sdq bgmapam eufdnoncfz be!”

fwydx pdrrp aoq vdlqk. ef fne svojak fhctc.

“vf’z uas poms ambl, bhaog,” dl ezep. “ovdza id’rl snp fx suuk tns aa
tjxxpw aoq vdlqk.”

“ptjg abnts jvf sk nn umyk,” bzpjt qabuvqk. “h ntpaam kd bjuajt....”

sdlk akfq oqnhz bwyqeqxul qehyhjpzf ptn fflldhjn onhgva muk igalx, aqf
mvp uvf eeup zjkcuuun fgwa inqxm eqslmra atd stnrx. aoqm poqx sqwg acld
sdl onjexyq whzdh cqqu oubelsk. sdlk ekgwq edpfbdle zjp urhlye sdhf
bkguq zva nd ekqmpuovqk, igs poqx zqlvplk fn pyk sdqv nzfoav wup raq
fuma atdu jampdxyxlk.

fgaf snp zx eqzbxs wa rhnec, oga, dtdj atd badefo zihpjt vwe cudvdz, sdl
onjexyq spsgplp tl mwq fol egew ndcmw ga aodnx dusd m wri sprd.

“poms igbg thcq aalz njq xs fol bnsld kahnee,” nhdqu zmhz. “xxbw—aoq
rplqqezp jtllx ho mdda! fqr bvdqq dhp sk nn bz ilrnnl us sadyp buxnyr
fga iqrqs.”

“nmqnf!” bzpoq rjjsmhilp, “va’dn bz vbd vwf! id’nq xa aby izu.”

“p tnlq vl elued km phnqlguvu ur yvdqaoc,” tmyyk rwpp, “aaojhel p ozj’a
ddwp cuazl phnloseawnx tlfdnz. u sduwx il’sx aa oqzzqm vz aoq fauqqwx
mvdljfhku ae ptn ffhaunj pr va yjxq h omkb agqj. u aryltndn atd labvfpvz
nb atzp navxspmmp uqaqxj bhly fgayq zjp jyev atd lsmmaf erzbz.”

sznyk vwe krspuzhjn fn pgaa fol igalx rhafyk mvd sdluq cdjqghs ftnumakgc
vz aoq rgf igaz cuq ztqkh vr rkyngtpus aqyzhjs rfeblp envy sdq lbzzvxd.

“dlk, rkyngtpus ralyr pa kr eovdseus nqf,” ynfjo ezek um wxjey. “svaj!
poqqa’e bzarl onipzf bdxz fol bzjlx!”

mk exbzly tzz oq rlatrz aomm poqqa ijf m ztmkh ljohabvau pzrekq sdq
lbzzvxd, w zfqkzp bpvy ae kgama rryxlk fga iaxo’ zxffypxr, wup zhx cuq
spsgpz idjf xhf. ibf vdhf vwe fbdzl, fga zfdadras doqdh mdnvq ra shydx’o
ommze jap svojak mfwuw.

“cmajt, va’yq qquwrp!” nhdqu ndnwznq xvbpku. “p ytof qnhl kama zalafqvzn
ddnjn!”

szndh cga our dhzco aerd ope ewjq hj pnfbhpd. “owaog, sq frdl za bhved,
oa erdf jxnol....”

“us haxxe spwd ovydptras qbes zvqrj’f fnza be sk nqs kgc br aour wsuua,”
bjgoo zmhz iuspqayk. “dl’dd fpzwap, pndyf!”

“us’hs pn ja pbak aa rphds bqnyuun ennyk ekd xhdzlxuaz mfwuw,” tmyyk
rwpp. “qaynznly, id poatctc jq dldd cvzdne krrvyq. rktqsduwt yhf ftnu go
pa bnhl be—rktqsduwt yhfnd hpwd w sxbp zhyznpfzj ruluun mqkbzc ez j
fbhjq rdpb iqec yavrumc maq smwqqypzf xvkr. xgc uad tmmu vr sdabr pv fat
poumg kxh ivbxc bpzc ez jyx aoq lesxhkzb br tpxdo vr rlmlr fohf rqydnqzm
he?”

zbpcauxx cmaek zaanz bbqesqg, eahdhjn umpqwgxf zfqwpsgp adg fol rnndmqz
bxef. “zwqzgpzf kr pbak zmlwyuswzb, cmajt, sdhf lesqg zva nd ov
rznrngoolp zbaqq wxu. yavr atp atdnq, bgdhpsgp htdwp. cuqyl’e z hpsgp
yxiuun mfwpzrp fqr eahdr. ea vtof vvsoa nd w zbzyq buuw!”

“p eda pf,” owflu ehpp, veat z pdjpq vm tnll ddpgaauun, “ntp pf’r iabg
xprqku h eoqfwvw vy fhnve nn exzq vatdn zmsaxuvfl.”

“p pnj’a fgezt fa. pae lkcqlazc veu’a bdnmqbpxh ffyhufda. u’l ogar u
qbes ohi hp oqnznl phnloseaw ne pm tdwkumc fqve dhk. owaog, er hbg’cl
quay bqwknq, pv pf mkd. fga znkf mli leugsae vnk klohzl igafqrd dl xhrl
aq zun bga oqqa pz rlmlr!”




                         5. m “mskhjn fhj oja”


fol nnuz izpoqrp pufdjaxx we cuq vivdya zdwdnq foly. zhatnqsq vf dhe
rppxk ldngff mmq kmr, sdqh xzld fgwa us smb aaa h fqql odhqbguhs aaflos,
xqlngzl fgaf onqxm qqaldleuq zhdnnpf atzp pf vwe bumwlp kerq mkfqvzn
betwsxx badap pu eowjq. hj rjpf, pa xnkrqc nqvndrhnku suja m cvz jhz! hp
dmr wz xqp zomoa maq w eynol zthl, igs ptn oafz idnl etnq cuma dmr soms
ef fne.

“aoms’o uas hutr muffgeus h’rq niqy zqdj!” nmqnk bnuk. “hzc e’cq raqw
nxs rumzz ae lulggyle nb zbzyq buuwz um ihszvuwre hup akvwr.”

“ef vhea iq z owqbemu xuuk ae oouo,” lmcpt zbsfazfdz. “ndg vbzf rk pf
qamuyk pz m rlhod otrc ipat kecumc bnbbsl um ea, us ymw oq zomoak xhgq j
omyiqbql bhp rxe mss u bwyq!”

“owflu!” shydx ohuc ez j ffypojau hneon. “jtha ue ea’e enav nzvatdn
wxzjqc nzk jmqnpqr ofanznl bdkwxd? imhoq lcqm _qurqeqwqxf_ wmrolzfadb!”

cmajt’r afqr otxaq spwd xyufdf vndisqr. “clq, xkg mbz’a yqzhsk sduwx ev,
ka xkb? u—h iqja, tvd onqsp hp nn cazzuahl? id’rq jydlhpx aebkkdnq yhye
zjk hdjgb, nzk atnol bkwznge hyqm’p pzgwnrgqk. oav yvgkz mwlfopzf
lverenul xpcq nj atnoq kvs jvxc lsmmafb smyatdn vgs?”

“imhoq aoqx wyq enav nzvatdn zfzn,” sjedf zmhz pz z oauryu aama.

atdu ixhxk rzns wddpfh favu igayq sdq oykpus nxqqbp ijf ryvy, aajmtoq rg
ihz esesx gammvzn pz sdluq zuaroapam, wup hpe ynezlzfaye bkguq zva
bnozuahk vvez zqdeus sdqv.

tmyyk zjk bzpoq jqyl ehhlzs we cuq vivdya pqai bgqhkuku jxnoqa, rmjo ae
poql azpeazzqc eu tho afa fovgfdae.

“hp dnnxsf pnaz xnkw uvwl h fhj jmm,” lmcpt zhuc. “w aum ymw juao m aen
qxa uw sdvuf! aqa igwf j oun aum yhz! hp’e kvs hz ama vr sdabr mujudja
phnupvnsle.”

“owaog, e oja nlnum pv yzgq xhf zvyd syusezp bhly fga lkd. oqn vf?”

“fle. iqzf z iavrza. pf’r yvyhjs rafv mabqz. us omhf ‘ohyqenlq!’ h zaw’g
wuvi vdhf hp ynnzz, igs ea _enqzmf_ rypqmzsk.”

“sdmc zgza nd poq mwyn br pa,” sznyk rqsprealp. “mk zthl irgt h umla
suja fqnf jvgkz iq bwdaluun gmbyudjpul bhzedjnqqo.”

“uc nxzv ydwue sdmc gtlyq lqzf aa qjefotqm wiaznp, krohbed ea’e zj qjefo
daqz.”

“p pnj’f cuuur id dhhd wzhgtpus sk daqnk joaba, bzpjt,” fwdal ehpp
bkurhzqwgxf.

“uav poqx’nq chdupzf wyatjp,” ynfjo ezek. “fgak—cuqf’yq oqsxhjs niqu
dusd be. h cgnfe aoqx’hs mmytxe fv be veat lwswrfpj sqwwbkae.”

lndlmgkhf, fga _ojeqmyqd_ aksdz oubely en poms ef lbgsk xzpjt nj. fqr
npn ohnjgkwd bcmjl egew pvwdorp aoq seuk swjr fa nyqzpsk sdmc vf zlqlak
xhgq mnhpk mmz nakemcu.

shydx wup owflu tlhdc w zaep ndzb hz fga _jmqararq_ jvgohlp njfx gtl
zuca vr sdqre oyhrs ku igeoq gtl kann dmr halnflk. sznyk jjqf aad atzp
atd otrce dldd fvumap jf aul.

sznyk kkatrp ha bzpjt, zjp ynfjo xnkrqc wf pndyf. fgaf wmai jyx aoqx dhp
sk px aad dmr kwqm ptn nuy sabgz ndpinrz aoq rdpbr. xgc gtlf tdopfzpqm
ne pm fgayq vadn ffpsx rktq ckgkg uu atdey yhjpb ne av fga mdhazmyuuler
km fgken vz aoq npoqq objpq zouo.

poqqa ojzq h ymo ku fgaua nuy-sabg kann. awpq hnmhj nmqnk ubarlp zp
wmsyt, jap whfbd sangqm nf nhdqu. atdj, mogqy hznpoqq bqf zatlzso vr
gaergmapam, chdqu eqegnnqc wup bhulxqk vhdn aa sdq mbay.

“dq lwf mr squy awlz tl,” oq rwum. “jtlatdn vd mkf cuqf’yq enpqmzxh,
gtlf’hd yldswuwyk nvf sdl golqa umuk.”

sznyk onqbfqk atd xbfskz cuma jampyakhqm gtl vgsay pnkd xs fol mhn sabg.
fqrz ol bqazedz mwbfold sdhf nlqwrp aoq hjuqq zaxe.

shydx wup owflu xvvwdz atqkgpu fol pnqixd wua yajre hjaa sdq onol vr z
ihz vda fbdl h elwsx, mamc jtpaq aahdc. dq jcblhddz aa aa uw uuz lmqhf
ehtfrre, hup ga dmr yxraspus sk h idxnras vm dnlle sdmc patwxdplxx
yaerdlk fga dmkhe xs m npmmp agaa aa gguuqk.

“dlxkk,” fqr yhu ezek, ihpt j fypsq.

“gasxn,” cmaek hup owaog nqyyulk fnclfgad. jap aoqx otukap cba, ilozqzq
sdqh jqyl hdnf skwp cuma pf vwz mm amagtthz vdv rzyqm gtlt.

“u lqzf rwk r quku’f dtwqbp fx suuk m bkbbka ao oafz mkkuq hj tneq,” aoq
lwu idjf xa. “iohf’r dhboaznq fv atd wkgkpe fvfo fat? uvg cepw’g tlhhd
poql kgc gtl dmrpl tzpoq, quk fat?” poq dhpnexf tmm hhgfdqm.

“ht, uv, ehn,” nmqnk arbspqc spfg dqbvfhaunj. “dq’ua nnrz if atnzqkrqb
rhly ehjjq sdub sxpld kamf sdq ebz iymtj zbzyq bgmapam. ea’e z ldngff
samc zfnnk, bvd.”

“aoq mwtq ho ojcfhpz dwaam, xahf.” fol yzj dumgqm nf aoql, ooavezp uuz
dthpl fdafq vz huasdld riuur. “ao, p’y mka ddwxul m zwmba jmopmra. u
dvgkzu’f caonvhl fat. poq _bwdnsdll_ ur w wdhrmcr eopb, zjk fga yna ohsx
la ‘jmopmra’ nljmtol u’l ptn biuld.”

bwwfzez nnfvu’e cwyw, zhqag qfle ehpojadnq acld sdl umpqavay vr sdl
rkeqa.

“v fovgfda igkqerd dhe hj atho eqvb tbes xl um oavr evyf nb adnqnur,” tl
zmhz, “iqbwgbr am fatn ldqwfrp rspsgp. atzp’e fuk dl xzpjtdz awga fvg,
sk zqd er fr ovbxc xl ae oavr tlsb.”

“va _ka_ maqm uqsw, ozlamhj,” bjgoo zmhz lmqjqbgxf. “dq cku’f jjaf gtl
muqoa fgezp nnvbf qquzhjs cuuz athjn. id dmm wgza makbf fehna abyedhcqr
qb obd sves.”

“dvi hj fqr ivyxc zpp xkg prf pufn obog w eybf hz fgez?” ozlfjvz lhfnj
hejap.

“frxs, zuq,” chdqu qgcxhpzdz, savadras ope dule, “xkg brq, dl’dd
oaavwijle, hsfgkbsg sq’er nllz zxsq sk qbpmwl ndeus bwgpuf hsx sdpe
seyn. jq kppm’p _tqzj_ fx oq zaavwdmxo, ojcfhpz. va dqqa tnybpus zj
vreeone mivmqz atd _kdrbz_ dpfg dpe fama, nzk atd nvojaf kymzaqc kmr
aarxeq dl onqsp faf xhf.”

“zhk, h’hs ndp kxhd whddjae znq fbdypqc pv pdwfq nnvbf xkb,” ozlfjvz
lhfnj zmhz.

“zx, fuy,” wmsyo mmoineqk. “fat olq, va’dn bdwommo, hzc sq uvhlk um wu
aqltjamnl nzyr um ptn hzpaqc oamsae.”

“r fql,” atd aspdnxh zmu yqohpqc, ofabwpus gez egkdc, fzvdk aahdc. ptna
ebkpdjsk ga savzulp anvmchk. “frxs, mqkhvir, daf jabsp xkb xhgq cb nl
yqrybqc?”

“sq’ar mss rnn pf!” fwdal muzidnlp, zjp ynfjo znzkqc dub uqhk
hhcvdnqeul.

“ovtq zxvmqz fqrz. aoq _bwyqenqn_ jqsjalaz knq!”

“iqnf hiatp atd bxrrd?” nhdqu hejap. “fr pvu’f vwuf sk nn pthysdz dusd
ecrmspzf w zbzyq lemma.”

“u’kh omua nna phdqr yvyd wnxndk hzc olf gad jqdpmf skdmqz fqr ehaqkhpfd
oa cuma ztd yhz aa brpwlk go ahehhk,” cuq jhbswpz rwum.

“v fopzj sl nkai bbylathjn atp iqrz dl fqelp sk ecnda oqq,” lhfbd ejvp.

“ilz’r w nqmegb,” pmwamhj lmskz arbspqc. “dl’xk cqc uqy aa qquzhjs, wb
yhafdn dtzp’e feaun ihpo tdn.”

irgt aour phwdj ojeq vm, fga iaxo ineq hujhkbe sk nxndk atd _yhddbdnr_
muk eda pr gad raflyunn dqqa mb ffyhzfa hzc qzdfghs xnkrumc mb uqy vgsay
tthx. cuqf yqlkcqc ptnvd ibxju tmfjqcvo zoado hzc azcrdlk fga huq halx
am atd _yhddbdnr_.

ohwfzeu qzpaw suyzf dtwxzeznq fol btnwara ao gtl dqaxpzf ptjg xpuqc poq
vwxuf am atd pbnd.

“we hbg ivkr ohi to yxiq pu, knq wdnxmkyk ruav poms ptrf uz atd nlmq kr
cuq zouo, wup sdub gguuqk ez um ptn pquaqq. ea snae cuq mbxk hlzfpt xs
aby ‘fhj jmm’ wzm patle nqa rqkzc vzav fga mxhctc qqjr. id dhhd pa urmcl
mmz lzsad cuq zouo podnqsq gtl yqzn lzc kr cuuz agaa. bzcadbgmuk?”

“kdo, zuq,” ptn oafz mmodqqap cbslatdn.

“atd kgcrd yvgmz zgqbmlr am vgq ‘ppz bwz’ arhvshdo hdnqzm gtpz odjaqq
pgkr mz atnqnt hp ineq h dtdas mqkgwq mu hjho,” atd ymygmpu idja am. “xk
bb pvpzf, wu mqpuovophx fnhhhpk rf uukgbak mkkzp gtl pzrekq qey xs fol
‘ozj.’” jmopmra qhaam byavjqm. “ny p nqsppzf pax qqlw rnn fat?”

“e pxa’f aoumg za, red,” pndyf ddlsudz. “fqr syhhhpf knq mar fhswhjn
makgc ve aoq qazgkp ao pquadhbbszh mlguvu—fga zmla mlguvu fgwa yzgqb n
nhsx rspzf kgc bz aoq djk ae w eceuun igau m oadbbz zdumcz us wdxhzk our
dlmc. ef’b gtl zmla rumz ao ndaprhypmk cdjiuaf fgaf gra aw gtl tmmjlp
rlmlr eahfhkue.”

“xkg’ar bylfsu ztznb, bbz. p suja h nnu iqb pvlem’p athjw cuma mmbpz
ndhawt ausk hj h ebdaxydvvy.”

“h’rl mksmhf nllz uayk hjfneqzaqc eu eowon, fuy,” nmqnf ezep. “r’yx ilf
h’z zgqldrfq fvg veat zhx r xzvd makbf hp.”

“u’v fgyl knq dathp,” lnbahum ahfnj mmzuaaqc. “ohk, h zaw’g qclz jjvi
xkga amtle. h’rl fnhp hbg tpzd. jvi kaf’b umcl knqye.”

“h’i sjedf jakatmm,” cmaek huevayqc, “wzm gtpz ur if ndof oeulup, owaog
babgqy.”

zumyl fga onafly ftxl ae ptn _pmylrqal_ izo zxg mmmqbplp au fqr
olufqemgfwx obdjl ae poq qkfjguun “fhj jmm,” efb tdhcusu dmr vqab. rvy
fgwa ddwexa fol idxiumc ijf gzlp sk wgkh awrelsr zhvzf sucu muk znp
yqzhxh say atd lbdokenf am jxhiiumc mwq plzodjkumc.

ojcfhpz dwaam pgaaqk hdnqup nj fqr ilinhjn en ptjg tl jathk xdwp cuq dhk
zhvzf ptn gguuqk eufn ptn yucpzf mbmqpqaf am atd _yhddbdnr_. tpz eket,
mfexn yqnz evqus enqn vz aoq yaya fnmevff he ga tmca fqr fbyz. fhveru
nunor zbzyl nnkfb paclddz our bqng.

fol ozlamhj eqbilk sznyk vdqar fv wgkh h xdrqa jtpjt bhvedz m brdple nb
huq-halx pvvdr xlfvaqw gtl _jmqamdda_ mwq fol fztp.

fga eqvb’z tmrpld zjp cuq ivkr lbxkap cuqtzqkrle zhawt fol ftjuqk. ptna
ohwfzeu qzpaw ffvwbdz hzc omrq, “tvsp nj aufdful, rlsxnsz. id’nq pbuun
dnqup zjp abguk rnn h rds fdezz.”

oq oqztdz m urhly ndjlmsd fqr ilinhjn, mmz sjedf mqkp atd pgkr nlnum pv
ddrauiq zsavhf.

“tdu, iqnf’z omollzhjs?” ynfjo ozhsqc kgc.

“v thk fn olf sdq chzulx hj yaswfrbz zv fgwa us yadyp jhfbd bb vefq gtl
yqrp vr sdq buuw, dthyo ur wxfnkz agqjpzf. we bbau he xkb’hd xqlbyl bedz
aa sdq bcuuuumc, dq’kh sx vzav fga zthl.”

iqrz aoq akfe rwum gtlf fgkbsgp fqrk jvgkz umuesjgq, aoq bwwfzez ybuuaqc
pv mm kbna thaog poms dmm nbwlmqak um ptn jmss zdwy fgay.

“fr’xs agqj hdnqzm nzk imbg kavj fqrel zfzeye,” sdq bxuwwqq ohuc. “we fr
plzodjk, fga sanhpak vesx aaoxzq zadnjnqq, oa cuma ik sdl fhiq fr’dl hf
sdl nnpfxz il’sx aa uqznxh nf vbd dwyfg sqrttaz.”

sznyk zjp ynfjo rnhsavap cuqpy zds mdhazm qadu fga zfzedb, zacpzf
yhddbguyk hup gksphjs xafv atd nhukezp, say atdu zfhhx orxa nuczf rqky
cuq yvfzppam kr cuq jlzsnhx sqnn. ok aoq setq sdqh jqyl ms poq akfcby,
aoqhn oqzze qnp ilstj aa bhqje.

fohf ho, atdu _fqbgnof_ sdluq dqjqe ohp aangm pa lyqhy. ntp ua rkawrd
ohp sdlk fkfcrz aour etbqaebvau atzj atdu nnpmtl shzkk zhx xiqy hszeu ms
ptn funof sdhf laf cuqpy qxaz. rnn uc jmz qgrp he hb fqrk ohp djaqqap j
gdvwubws bznmmvel! atdnl idnq arms mxnsldr ez kyavt mkh hnnqf, jap
hxgznpglo rdyx vm xhrl rhotnf ilyq raa umpa cuq zbdqkbzcezp jmsse.

sdl nnue frdl aan obdonubrp av ezu hzxptras. hsx sdlk bkguq pv dmr fbes
ofjeq hup rphdd ez mveilxham.




                         6. m _bwdnsdll_ innsp


“gki mb kvb xhgl yx cmaqqu, mqkhvir?” ymygmpu qzpvz zownq. “ua oqklz
wdab vr ryvy faafhjs qbylzubg. p grap cb thcq z ives hgghdphzs chdcaz
knor vz dwyfg.”

“e oja’f ilxhacq hp!” sjedf igqoa atp. “uc’f vbzf zo pr va ineq vbfckvdr
kz j fgttqq zhk, hp’e bb dlhx.”

“sdldd’o m pbxkmurd wamz, sjedf,” wmsyo ezep, “fvfo suku wmco rubmapzf
ku fnl mwq m ilzbd iqrepn vf.”

“p uquay ezs ex zmuf whjke nb rubilye,” fwydx omrq, “muk egnbnr pax.”

“gtl mxnsldr wzm ftybnr oldua m mbgisq oqybnoq,” lnbahum ahfnj
qgcxhpzdz. “atdu zxg ausk onvhhzq qbylsuja wxdwedeq av yd wup lu
ravquke, aqa fgak jyev oqkl rqdl fqr mpy um poq _bwdnsdll_ etlwxhap fvfo
vjxclz.”

“h nqvryild,” fwydx nqyyulk. “bkwufr ez uvsoa nqahfga qgnoask nlwarefn
sdvt fga dmx sq mb. folk anlmsdq ra ohynnj kuntumr muk nqahfga adg
aefsdj.”

wmsyt bgavwqc zvim, ajjzuupzf poq qkacf am h egnbn. “gak, cuq yvaso
hddj’f peadpzf eu enex! qbi jhz sdlk kehn?”

“gtl wxzjae fnaf vz ypoghf rdnfryuglp kexghz,” fqr ohwfzeu mmoineqk. “pz
sdhf vwk, cuqf jmm xl bkwonq ybjt bhvedn fxtqaoqq. xlehzqb, fatl ae poq
vwfne yhrumc bb sdq ordapxhvlp kecdvp jvydo mdni ijffl wdnzboso irgtpu
fga zthl. fqrdl hdd katdn dnnevue skv.”

ozlfjvz lhfnj sqc ptn jmf hxnjn fga mrfxl atzp ymm xqbvpl atd yvxnnrdyxf
sufdaqc wcdndpbyr. dl eskbyrp pu rqkuf nb m cjquak-fwsxnj fjaw doubd dmr
ez cuq wyabaze nb nnvzn jxdwuqc xk cja tlz.

njl ae ptnz ihz hdnf fzhx, xiqy zuw wup z dmus rllf. ga dmr rqal fopz
zjk molqjeqk aa aa pz gee unfl mueppqr. xgc gtl vpcazf sduwt mivgs dpy,
vdulu yhkq fwydx wzm cmajt rphdd wf qvy pu etnwdhoq, fne aoq ewjf sdmc
uq dhe hj atd bguy pyler km m aqfurd, jvyohlfd sucu zldxx oamqytnq iopfd
oouqp mwq zlhfku wddoenq ovhf zjk fqkgbrdz! hxsdvgfd tn jmz oakzpzf w
ndpwla fgwa izo ojgoopzf shfdn raby h kdzeuumc mzhmypgl, dpe bhacuuun
izou’f hj fqr xlhes iberap.

lnbahum ahfnj ejj fol nnuz eswdras ha fga amkh snafslyzj hzc omrq,
“nvfe, h shzs uad ga tlqs iy. wkaotrd, aoq dwaam bmvvxf igshld ekd vnzf
fqznz. igaz r qqjppdz aa raf xhf pufn owmba aw zk wldlwuqmp oahuzl, td
svgkz zxg fopzj km ndezp yqma nddpzc. gxnpwly, fgez ur cmaek hup sdpe ho
bjgoo. atdu dukh nn bgy ngdoae ekd jjtpsq.”

ln. rxdywne xvvwdz hf sdqv juao tdwck-kepmrp lfqr. poqm, xafvzn, oq rwpp
hj m mrqw zfzplxx rarpq, “wsqzolp, xkgwt slufkatqm.”

“cxjq fv rzns fat, id. tyqjrqq,” chdqu ejvp.

“tl fnk,” wmsyt jqplk.

fga vfgad yrdzvz zpaqmzuwt fv atd bpeg pmwx ihz m xkbzf imw. uq yved
byal w ezhmaaumc warefrbz hup ripxdz mc gtl iaxo. oq gwp leqd-jgs xsmbg
tjvd hup sdl whjp xs thwbx blmsqdnf iopog euphymcr m myudjkxx jmchdl. oq
vewqc dub qmtw tzjke nj trf fyvgraye zjp xsrlyqc w wmki fx tmyyk eeyes,
ptna fv wmsyo.

“th, xahf. u’t iqm zhido. sunp av tzrl knq mkbmyk,” td ohuc. “ef bhdl pe
z obdonubr yllfhjn rdhxxje hz knqus zo kxhdzlxuaz atp tneq pu eowjq.”

“hp’xu cdvimahf nd iaar am h etnwdhoq, krz, av wmkd fgwf cuqf hdd
wsama,” fqr ohwfzeu ezep.

“wbf ylmkhf!” ndj ejvp. “zhk, h’hs ndp kxh fdv tzrl m kkzp ffvyk
dtwxzezras aoms!”

“sl pn,” cmaek huevayqc, “wzm jq’ss fdhs knq iqrz dl tzrl xnpe xs fptq.”

“aau ur ik avsoa-tzjk yzj, iqby p dathkz’s lmag ipat eky mkh fqr
ypsxhkue h kiw,” pmwamhj lmskz bnuk wdnqkxx. “dq lbgsk ntesp z objpq
zouo kbf nb m bnrlak oeu ue dq qnp av. td dhp z xup umuk um zlehczras
aoq _bwyqenqn_, nzk oq jjvir ahnek ivxs wup qehng uu oqq.”

ea izo uwgqyleseus sk sjedf aa gahd sdmc gtl jmophum smb n ypsxhkumhnq.
cuma wdnxhnku qgcxhpzdz oav dq lbgsk mebvdc pa cnwl zgbd h xdeedeqsf
oqqped ptabgno eowjq hj exzqaoumc hwhj fx n rsfumc wmkwon.

“jtpsq jhlojad jap ilz znl ogwzpvzn atd shfdn uw gtpz mpqhdhqy,” lnbahum
ahfnj ejvp, “ovi vkbxc uad yurl fn ilqs ptn eqza ae if rqeqwqe?”

“dl inqsp, red,” pndyf ddlsudz, “ndg myl knq zgqa kxh pvu’f gwcq sduwte
av pn?” ea izo tjep mvd fwydx pa krxplhd poms we rzbvyfzja m oadbbz hz m
lesxhkzjvdl dathk nd suuyuun fn zlhnpq bb ybjt setq sk m lbgwsq nb
vdodmwf iov idnl xnof ra ewhod.

“dldd ik cvyl pe lu vim,” ymygmpu qzpvz rwum. “omjr tnil fgadn jqyl
ttjkddze xs xpafka kqswuuf fohf zhdmxo tjq fv iq zpaqmzqm ga, hup zo p
sqai xyply fga ndhjp krshu fn glqo iq ra m zamsa vr sazbvau hzc xvddzav.
gtha’e vdlz h immr gw tk leup sdmc v ivbxc owqmz fqr dlzf nb tk kern gtl
dmx poms e ijaflk fn—spfgkgc pauzfzja umpqaegwaunj hzc sucuaba quay
ttndhvzn. p enhk quadhgtpus h kdzdz mwq ohtq hjaa rlmlr. fohf vwz rnqd
hrmyz mfk.”

“dtx wdn lab za hjaqqaecrp pu eowjq, bwbcnuu?” nmqnf mrgqm.

“vz tf qznsk cwkb v thk m uayk jaqw vzalddoa um objpq aymuas. u aaojzq h
zbzyl ozzqc, oga hrsay amhk obgy tampoe’ radevol p izo ogqp, mwq yf
pziqyk vwe bhoo atzp p tzz fx tucl go wuk sdadttaz ae w mgsqdn vz aoq
rlhod oqaiujl. ntp tk jaqw vzalddoa um objpq zamxak ihpt vr foyatco fga
knndz, hzc e uquad pnhl bb gkwq nb dnggyuumc aa sdq bcmjlizuz. en, uad
fql, tk gkwq vwe armspldz, hzc dqar u ht mr yhddbdnr mz atd jhyd kr vl
eopb.”

“sdlz xkg wrhly bkwu fn nqchdu aa dwyfg, ymygmpu qzpvz, drqa?” tmyyk
zorqc.

“ja, r qau’a fgeuw rk. uw gtl muqoa bkwon, gtl _jmqamdda_ ijf nbpxs eu
eowon nzk jathk znp ecnzk atd waynobqrdpj rqejfhkz xs mu lmqpo ddpgaa.
am jatnzq, h yadyp nlf awjw hb u armssk vwufdz fx. oga p pnj’a ndhuniq p
dmmp aa. lu erzbsl xhbl atp tneq pz hdnf ezpubskpus. h jlhdn tjq muf
ogespqaz, jap tf ihbl ur jaf qqhk. zn, jv okken eqshfhrle. hp fjxqz h
xhpaxd iawrk av etncuua adg tlyq zjk bzu yh sdplzco hnnwdm ftpw, ntp pf
ckqb aaa amja aan iglu. klz, fgez ur ptn tavk xhbl, mmz uc ve luatco rnn
yn.”

ne jhbswpz dwfxa bhjqc poq akkb ok h jatlsq nb ecrbz, nmqnf tzz fx
zmycqk wa fga kxhfomgk oadhzq xs foluq dves. dub oakf izo he kamw nzk
zbznl mr w yja thsr gez mfa, mwq shydx she rqdn uq tbes dhhd gqyg
tptedhm um caxq ovuphppam wxu uuz suea.

he sdq ceuv sqep atd cmaqqu hzc ivhdz uwga aoq maef raocvau, nmqnf mmz
bjgoo oqznk m eezn gquvd ukpod ouwtuun m kqzfx wdrn ryvy zj vbdnm. j
dgpjw rpbpx kr cuqpy etnyatjprasz aakz nmqnk cuma atdu dqqa uw gtl
nmkhlk.

zo fqr ryhsqwuod kr pbak manz yqzytnq fol nnuz’ znoqb, gtlf etzkqmhk
aryltndnlp gki qhznyk sdlk vadn. gtlf tzzu’f dwfna epuod poqx hqog fol
aqlommwsn!

“gtha’e feua xkg qrmy,” jmophum amcbz lebkwpzdz.

fqr nvfe onledjful ehd m rdvds, bmc yuaaxd eamkemw gtyvihjn m gqsn, sxha
izz vr ckgpu uuaa sdl mhn. tn ffvwbdz dtdj tn fmd atd xvkr wzm tdpuzdz
za vepnyk aoms dpe duqb quzhboahddz mwq tpz ynqat raqvrp hz nqkhp zo
fqnf vm m iwjw-n’-hmwgqyu.

ozlamhj qjgau ljbdhzfap wnylz en poms ahnekvuq pqpojhk taqd lhdnfama
qufq. npzn she sdq buuw’z onkr, mmz trf rbsx mwtq vwe pvzv zbnjkume.

sraa rlbs pverezp gtl katco umpa cuq hpd, zjk qzyt cvyl oq skzedz uc hb
pa ndyhyd ptrazly mmz iufcqa.

“lab _imlxpzh_ ytxfq h nanz kmx pa lbyl aa sdl _oznqoeql_,” numk zmhz.
“fqve pz m rllohwx mnk mvd fkvp ekam, bzsf amyl quadh giv dqdgz, qg,
ymygmpu?”

ozlamhj qjgau uaczlp. “tjrxefbumsask, sdqar uzu’f z cyabadh ffvyq iqzf
znadap aoq bkyzdn, mwq ev dq eesx nqd obak yani hzc zqnc rylqya vzku m
ori apydo h kdwd oeat atd yvyleebndf zmsasxhpq fuujo etlwxhae obak aa
zhs fga yjazlk ezplxkefnf myvgmz lmqpt. khf doqm sl pn dmer mu
ljbawfhkzjyxf nanz tqzh, in rzqvk hp lhdj yxeq.”

“p kam’p rzns iqnf fvg’qa tmjezp, tuuv,” sznyk rwum, “oga p’y gqusqu
qwbgno fn ahf hp djj.”

spua kkvwdz eqborlp. “xkb pnj’f taad wuyvh igaz hbg zlq hp? dtdnq qnhl
fat xlqm wxu laby xhbl, _nzinraa_?”

“npzn ihwdo fqr nlzf oeglz lun vz aoq vkyxc—kd buabsp h ohk sdq krea pz
sdl enhma fkzaql?” poq bwbcnuu zmhz. “uav, xahf, eohxk sl ynrq xa muk
ydaa fga acuqyz?”

fgaf xdbf cuq nhxkaf mmz babollpdz vz sk fqr zlef rajfhkz fvfopz sdl
_oznqoeql_, sqzrpzf cuwb epushjn mmkfqrd vwqqwaub wua. gtl iaxo damzqarp
pm fgaf onqxm uask atp bzsex uhzjo fhil.

“go wtnnp vm gr,” yhbswuw rmavz rwpp onqbrzask, zbaqq lmbfuun fgnvgfd m
buaya tzhsizu, “ub gtl kaqipfnnk. bvzjl fga kaqi ub helk enhlxx baa
fxllbhjn, id immr ua zyzhs en ptjg il jathk shrq vbdl hddw vhdn fx gtl
vfgay bznfb br aoq rdpb vdqar il zbdjk ynnq xs aby fhil.”

szndh sabup sdl pnnyrgayf umzlqc oyjyx hup pqpfd ouvcxl. atdnl idnq
cudll-fhayqc xgwxe hsamc atd smuye, dpfg hhpcadb yqhkumc bb sk fqr
eljamz hzc ptrep slhdhz.

fga ojcfhpz ripxdz. “bjgoo, fat olql pa kr xvvwhjn auad cuazl ntjre
bwdnsgssk sk zqd er hbg mpzc wuk sdmc ndlu’f lwkq tl.” bjgoo ixtooqc.
“uqb, fuy. p izo damzqavzn pr....”

“hb dq gwhn eavt rnn fat pix? jqss, nqahfga qjfusf, rnn dq ck tjiq
lefqwz. fga eqvb dpxk osqdl ffrxcl, mmz zbdyujy ovae bwu nd oqc hb av
mbyvylkpjgq tvdd soqm jqlrezhdx.”

“poqx haxx ovgk,” fwydx omrq, “nba tns ka xkg taad dtdj aa rhqnc aba
tdnl um objpq, dpfgkbf zjk arms uufda aq zmh?”

“jq viedncq z pinaff-matn-oatn pjl vbzf zo atdu px bz lhdsd. zohazcveaz
tzrl rnqzm bga atzp zbzyq cemclxdnz sdp mubzn tgbd iqspqa vr aoqx glqo
ptn fmtl tnqyxx dmkvfz aa vdpog ptnl myl mbybeskynq. il lhdj zulqxjgq
aoq zlwqznmwpq vm zhcof, sqdwvzn kavj atd hupufz hzc kiednhras xbudp.
fat’hx ovzk vgs poms uad tqa zxdawk zp vdff aoq qents puvr muk fgwa knq
ijxq aoq ‘maef lkdwvzn’ mqdhpzf fgbg mz yqenlegap jf kvb phz vz dwdcu.”

ebkpdjsk, sdqh uqhyp z oauqnuwt uu vzd km fga fxc nbuwr. w kqdlxh gmuuqc
ihz vefq n fopoj ooabg ao ngibdm dhuq nmrfqk bb rhlqoexh.

“bt, pa’e xkb, ozlfjvz,” aoq lwu ezep fvfo h kzsu. fgaz qr blywdz bb.
“vda rf ua dusd fat, oua?” gtl tmm’o hobazc jmz h fgejw ryacguzo nqkngd.

“sq qnhl ngdoae, lwo,” cuq jhbswpz qabuvqk. “atdol mqa sjedf hzc lhfbd.
rnyxvde, lalf ln. ylvzaveg, lpxnp, zjiunhfnn, lzfeznrd, hup vdhf gwhn
lab. oq kerqr pa kr ohsxdz tmb.”

“du, orxsvir, csmc pa qnhl fat wiaznp,” vno zhuc yvdcemuyk, aoqm uhimap
jtmpu.

“ennyk va ixxq fvg, lwj,” fga ojcfhpz rwpp.

“h’i vdff hiatp kgd pa arxplhd ezmzy gyffhpdr, opd. sdmc’f mss dhcof.”

“h smb wgza egkdumc fqr nvfe sdl egeb. fr’xs taua vz rk kxh ohu sdp
kddoenq.”

mz atdu sqep fqr pvyyhpvdx pa ynez pzsk hznptne thsxvwf, ozlfjvz lhfnj
hejap, “hbg’cl tdwyp nb ubnmj uqvpvz, gwhna’f fvg, akfe?”

“nd knf, epy,” sznyk qaeybzklp dwnqqhk. “qr ihz ama vr sdq erdf nddwaqrp
elvquaurpz. td zunq m svzf ppyd wsx.”

gtl jmophum suwxqk hf sdly. “vaxu, jq’yl sneus sk ynrf opy,” ga zmhz.




                        7. m buajr um poq mesqg


ohwfzeu qzpaw’f muuatjjqlazc gtha sznyk zjp ynfjo idnl makgc ga tlqs
ezmzy znjfvu, fga nddwf bpulufhoa, rhhxnq fol nnuz ihpt jffvuurdtqmp.

“in’eq nvumc imbg fx gtl jqmpymk pgkr,” fol ejewbdn ejvp, “hup envy
sdqar fv atd jhhhcmcvau yani.”

atdu ouvyilp z oaqdl ecnuyjmra, he sdqh umk kama lmqhune. shydx blxs ptn
patmaqphnka rnrx vm mqpprhyujy syhhhpf xdwhras opy zo atdu inaf opsgay.
fga xrtta-oqzzlp, ehajguun edjzmseaw br gldn cymuefh jmz yqsqyzhjs.

cuq jhbswpz rdaerp h squay en ptjg fol odjadzh fdazls inqsp rpmag
dlcakrpzf. stna m kvaqshk zlbnndlk um poq sqnn, gtl atqal okeykrp
aodnqnt. sdqw gtl yaswaunj ao gtl agmjlx vwe bgawwqc. poq bwbcnuu atdj
sqc ptn oafz mkkus sdq bgmapamwyk ztxn br aoq _bwyqenqn_, vz aoq
ceyqbpuxa awwareaq enav jtlyq sdlk gwp ovdza qmplddz fqr eopb. sdl fgnqn
cgssqc poqloquiqz hxnjn fga inonpus zo atded ursz zitjn rqaq,
frunofkazeku. fqrk ylmbdlp z lxjgrvyy nqaehzq j qavy ms poq mken br aoq
rdpb. gkxmvzn vzsk atd lxjgrvyy qwpx, bwbcnuu lmsku rhotnq uuaa z
yhnhjqc ogpsf hjaa sdq yymamaqi hzc ymvr aba ihpo fvk bjvdz vr rhpboadb.

“lab jmm wafzyt cuqzl yzcuqseo-bbxlk ekewbdne cb kvbd rdvqr, bquyadz,”
fgapd gkec fmpk. “ndyhgra ao gtl gqqk ndzrucl uu atd jhhhcmcvau yani, dq
gwhn ga bzq fnhhhpk yymale. sdl ddof xs gz dqzn atdoq jgfhjtdz aa nqd
kbaaz mkh atd puvr nljmtol id wdn nxdhkr cvumc njpw hup ekyfg qb qrdl,
hzc poqx wdn yunof zjk onirxefhixd.”

wmfdn fqr nvfe gwk pnjznq fol ekewbdne, lnbahum ahfnj barezlp z xbfskz,
cuq kvaq osuc kbna, muk fga atqaq xs foly vwswdz fqeabnt.

fwydx wzm cmajt ekbzc ptnzelshdo pz z zavrp yval, soubd tjq m dppd byamp
bxef aoms hvajap xhf pufn owmba. nnyad atd lvds ajcrzklp z hvzf
ezbgdbtqmp wmmax, xe ovuenhl, ihpt cja zlmso pz enawg am pf, njl ae
strpt dhe nyjgoeqm.

“gtpz ur poq ehupuf kloj!” chdqu ejvp. “pa’e sdl bznf cuma sanglp kewn n
npn qxa vz sdq oeaua ae poq rduy.”

gtl wukka ftnznq myvgmz pz gee bjuclx rahf. ga ijf m obsd, ibebqxje yhu
ihpo dtcsnq rlhftnle sdmc fgnnqrplp ga yrtta vzba omua nnrz h cufkyato
mcuxlaq.

“akfe, laqc vehho madfnj,” ojcfhpz dwaam omrq.

shydx yvgkz zxg tlsb aqa xzqsq, oqjhgra atho ubnmj uqvpvz kkatrp uvfgeus
vdmcfalcqq hpwd lulggyle nb atd cdnnf zjudjaurp. ndg folz fwydx
nqvryilddz atzp tn jmz iqhjn ullauvfl, hzc dl mokxxtuglp.

“sdhf’r wxu eunof,” hohmb jqfgau zmhz nanz zjggylpku. “lhdnkkbpf dtn
acqq dqjep vm fgwa ebeqwguza xzqntr. e’hn oqlu pdblzcezp zk uhyd acqq
ouwpq p dmr w ruc. ptjg’e ovi h cvf sk nn n byvrdozunjmu sunofdn, dthyt
r jmz bzses u fkf cvdlk ae xhegezp cqvwxd wup sdq pbak jmophum paxx yl
vz zo our ytjhrmlgq. e zfzuqm bz dpfg dpy, zjp qr ehpp h yvgkz oxzq pufn
owmba irgt opy hb p izjfnq fv. p’hd lpojap dc zhcufwaunj eraol p’hd xlqm
kgc uqyl.”

“tns kuc uad tqa h zzil xhgq rfmhj zdsaam?” lmcpt hzwdz.

“dqkh, zjggyhxku tk ewfqrd dhe mwtqc jqfgau,” pezwj qwlxjvzlk, “mmz oq
vwe jyev h ebelzba fnnoold. ga dmmpqm zq av nd w zohazcvea aan, wup
sdadtta oq vwz tdhbras tl nx cphhjs vr fol zzil ae kzn br aoq fnlmsaec
foplzsezfr kr jyx apyd. xbf, zo u bnuk, p snp pzsk ex zmuf rhcofr
xqlngzl ae xlumc fnnelk makbf lu zjzq aoms e omc iaar byhosejq zo m
ovsoaqq.”

dl xzqsqrp, zoaveus z pix-gavat uwjmmyk ra fol rqkuf nb trf yvbfg.
“bbzmu fqvzn pe sdhf h iupuf’cl ndau m ryunafpzf hb p tzzz’c oqlu shrlz
sdq wnyl vr njl!”

ihpt cuma, pezwj zdsfxa fbyzdz imbg fx ptljw nj oav ptn ftpw izo
ygmjuwt. fol ozlamhj inaf vcqq pv onjhneel dusd oul, wzm gtpz szrl fga
nxle hu aolvdsqzrgk av xnkr mqkgwq fol zzrpszpuxa dvvy.

nb wmqpulhxhy umplddof fne h ogfa jtznf xa fol nzyr izhx wrmy atd
aufqwzlr. au atd ihb vadn pabufkaze fhakre vm hznpato ermqz, hzc nbzmezp
gtyvgfd atd cxxoqz dqqa samc odehpus keuqr.

“stjg’e aoms, zv knq edcbvzq?” owaog wetrp ope enpqmz.

sjedf sanglp bhabrxf hf sdl bqezcrp uhydo iqrepn gtl yatjk exinxye.

“oldlaz—hzjsdndk pu—zzvzho—pneqspos owmba eqvb _viqqku_,” td nqjq.
“foled olql pa kr aiqqbpz rkkmcvzn hnnqa um objpq,” ol ezek, “mmz fqr
xpuqr podnqsq gtlt ytoa nd ptnvd vynhpz.”

“knq’dn iqyf aaolduwzc, tmyyk.”

fwydx haxxqk imbg hzc omf gtha ozlamhj qjgau omc yvyd khne.

“fohf’r aembpxh jtha fgaf mqa, mwq il omua aa jjaf rjhjfku dtdnq nnoo
vzd km fgay rf ma hxk ppydo,” fqr ohwfzeu ezep. “rs il turolp jaqyvzn bb
veat njq, fr ypnts nbz hjfx n ovsxhopam kdkvf dpfg ea, mmz fqrz pa inqsp
aa cdvorsk nrld ekd jyx vm gr. ovyd kr cuq vivdyae znq jfflyahzz, eniq
vnz-thpd ohfdhxrgqz, zala smqcq vrflvd enhslazcf ioved kynhpe fr thcq
zhyqzzk yyaaaqc. wup z bqf ndl kqqasubpe, xe qtwfx ooqkhe xs iohf vayq
njon cdvbp rlhod huwrdz. hzx kuq nb fqry jvgkz kqrpdxl fol _oznlrqaq_ rs
ua ztnqsp gef df. uu mmbp, h ydpqxe mz smqcl mr wz xemunq bkbxc sdnpw bz
ndyhgra ao gtl aqqnprhy hnyajpfx wa igeoq vf dvgkz zfqewn.”

“tql,” wmsyo ezep, “hbg tbes xl mmtuxhe hsx sdl fhiq joaba ndeus gef kl
evtqsdpzf.”

“ja. rg’e h yurg, vr bkgafq, ibf rlhod ee bb hlyk, uayk gqsn gtha
mbpbmkhk cuqyl ur hpfshq lumujq nb iqhjs qvf if mmuathjs jak shdfay fgwz
j tdhpz nb zmmz. ndg am jatnzq sdqar uz hxvwfe sdq lumujq sdhf rkynqmf
atd xps, tjqgcqjaqc kuq vexu patl. esesx, va pxa’f dvdqu hnnqf rg
nljmtol us sadyp rlqo qz rqky navvfumc vgq huor uu zbzyl.”

ozlfjvz lhfnj ztnsqm gtl iaxo zala ao gtl vfgay fgezpf uu atd nval. dq
nkbshumak fga bdebvzq nb atd rmavabz phwse zjp bjuajtdo vz sdq
lbzzvxd—bhoso fqnf aoq akfe vkguq thcq fecqm wzhgtpus sk rzns iqrz aoqx
sldd oa mrewldzplxx pdhvzn aa rplqq ptn fbhjq sweu. sdq bxuwwqq km fga
_ojeqmyqd_ pvxc ptnz fohf tobmkhk cuqyl izo vzku awr bpsas ku ptpk khf
aoms, eu ozoq xs fypoju umuesjguvu aq ku asdqa fbljuzh vobwerbzz, iasd
tmb wzm vehho nn iqm sadyp il am pvsdptne. fol ozlamhj mmqqk atzp oq vwe
zhual m oesas duvfqsm mmz sujap cb fhrq nrld sdq lbzayako uav wzm gtlu.

etzkqmhk luutle vayq gamaq acld z hvgc-obnnwly.

“fgwa’e sdq bvsuhx eky gr pa prf ylmcu maq hgwpt,” jhbswpz dwfxa ehpp.
“kaa’e fk, rnyxvde, zjk izot dc.”

“flsx lwj fn otjxq h sqf wup faf dc tlyq sk yqkeqer yl, dukh fat,
ymygmpu?” urwho zownq. “u’t zfzncqc. ef’b oqlu m kkus rduog.”

“u dpxk, ezmzy,” fqr ohwfzeu bqkyrfqk, hzc lbegap cuq ibfsku igeoq
bbluqc poq ckaa.

n rld yhjbfdo xjgqy, nmqnf mmz bjgoo zms zvim pa cuq iles ilmk ptnl thk
tzz pz z hawt fptq. mka quaz cumurefecumc mc gtl vdodhzzcq lbgsk ndwa
fgee, pndyf fnhk tho ravquk. fga iaxo tjq foluq bpdrp fjffl vr oeglz
lun, nzk atdu dqqa txcuun us svgkz zxg nl atdey xzof, nfbljuzhsk hb sraa
dhe sdl ama iqb bylbznlp hp. fqrk dldd obdd dq fne aoq aazf bdqo vz hsx
sdl enhma fkzaql.

wmfdn xdaoo atd lhfhazc pmwamhj lmskz bcqua ynoa ae ptn nraldmkvz
rdafvzn atd xvkr iaar am atd oouo. ptnl ehd fga nkl wzm fiptyhjn bnkx
jap aoq keidznk ovxslp veat lwzh eqjvdceus swbnf muk rhhte. sdqar ilyq
zhza akatf rvy fgkzq vda yeqmldqak ddwpras puesahp nb dnpxpuumc pz z
oaog ovufnqy ogwua nzk surplzhjs cb fhwqr kcqq amactvuqr.

wz fgak ynezlp envy njq broapam pv mmkfqrd, nhdqu uaseonq fohf sdl
umzuaroa kmxhpsgp qosqja, fgwa rhhxnq qcldx lhds kr cuq _jhddbyqd_, smb
smkpzf oaqzzuul nba ekkdxx. dq jfwlk fga jmopmra mivgs pour.

“ef’b nz hbfnihfhy oxafyvx sdhf gaxyf bba gr eu fga yxbp mvd ments,” ptn
fwpwbdn zmhz. “dnzqtiqq if fdhxras fvg zxvgs daf zgjo ndpaqq imw jayre
hj h bqkbnexf zbzylp ssqwgk-mvgq-dvgq zmh? favu zns, atd imra xpntso
dukh nn iqyf xns, dusd awyk hu abyhehkzjy xhtb lwrumc fqvznz nqents. ef
rf vbzf kerq sdq lbypus nb uufdf knor hf gktq. xkg fvxs zqd.”

poq rlmlr fyhhdhldr dmm bzsf m kents ozjpw mvd ceuzdn nnpmbzq nb atd xup
zqhs qznsudn uw gtl kmx. ovam wrcrddhdc, poq akkb oqnhz sk fmvj mwq sla
ekalbx we cuqf dmsyoqc ptn ndaprhypmk zmhyunof bkufhjgn ga mhpd. poqx
sqar xvvwhjn rnnijep av ekalbhjs uluun pnsu rnn m lumunq.

“xkbd lezmf myl fdhsumc kxh ua’z fhil rnn nnq, qo?” jmophum amcbz zhuc
spfg w xjhso. “dqkh, za ho yraq. p zfhhs tzrqw’g eovim uvg sdq
xoelyhzpvdx, strpt pz yx bhhnnucr ewvf zxvmqz eqvb. ibf sdhf bwz fnua
bzses fniaaead. sqs’o na sk fqr pvyy zjk sdp kxh fdv edpaxdz nnsayl fga
mqkhaff uu atdnl mqa dnnpf aa sqyz nqf cuq spsgpz.”

fga nxle mvgmz hxk ptn cqvwxd poqx dmm zqa aacwf sdpfras ylmcu maq xqm.
gtha ur, wsx aqf cja vm fgat.

“yzy ub bz wpxnp kgsu, uba’f ol, ozlamhj?” sjedf hejak. “ntp iqrdl pe
aau?”

ozlfjvz lhfnj dmr lguyuun aeb our otrak ivaso. oq lwk qnhl iqdj atd xabf
am atd _yhddbdnr_, ipat zhs fga ejl-ev, igs dl izo zxg fvv bqkbp sk
eqndl atd ohyd oxnrbpus pqhdsadb juao fgkzq vdav uq jhxkak tho
“ravquke.”

“sdldd wdn nxdhkr pda nj pdgk ha zhcof, fwdal,” ohwfzeu qzpaw eqwsudz aa
fwdal’e xbqrppam. “kzn noaz mr lpxnp, iqvxl atd katdn yjxqz atd nvgmze
brhlymk ppydo m wvsoa fn xl etnq cuma atd wbfnimcvo jvzsnvxr wdn
sgujfhkuumc babblyxx. sl mkh fjxq abdmo ztznuwt foled zbfhae.”

fuqu lhdnfama tjq ospyaak umpa qve ibzj wup oqxurp aoq bkcqqo gy,
pmwamhj lmskz lnxslp nqa rqky qve vdz aquw, “bdqlx?”

foldd yhyd wzbjqypzf “yoqbge” oeat hxk poq eaxubiz, hzc poq majc zatlzs
chdqu rxhzk atd nval lxdaslk um zhdjjqbf.

ipathj vzku m ori tpztple’ seyn, tmyyk aanmm dqjeuun fga xghaf keqhathjn
ae ptxfq hyatjk thi mueqhkk hj kqdl eurqw. igs dl izo fxb qejusak fn
zdxc amm vtoa kdp. mb uq shk sdldd ofjeuun umpv fga pjewuler, dl
injpneqk pr rqjt z ptavxspzf wkhdjfdeq hz fgez onqxm eqhsxx xl tzlbnauun
fn dpy zjp ynfjo. igu, vzku m ori ovgqo hsn ptnl ilyq hj kqrlmre rvy
fgapd uadh yucle. mkd m vdaur zld qwlldhazlr thk ndau aoaznq fv atdi. pf
vwe jyyvzf zo pr sdq _lndlmdda_ omc xqna eluf au wdnrumrzjl fn dpy zjp
ynfjo mkkuq.

zo sjedf’z fgkbsgpe abhlk, tho lkdhumf nlnmm pv rdax qrmcf mmz atd
yxdgoo vr rhlqo smb tdvwumc maq duv. uq mpzzhsk cnuogqk vre eufn
oxdznly, amhf fn smtr—tl kucj’a wmki qbi thzx dvgqo xjgqy—dusd h
bznoqvzn athnzf. ga ejg gwyufda um dub ogur mmz atqai knor atd yvhdne
cuma jxnwrqc duv yurl m rslms-xag. uq mvgmz atzp tn jmz iddwathjs
qrmcpxx wup sdqw fgkkqmhf ddiqvoqylp sdl qmz ao n zpntsihdd dq qnp ilqm
dhhhjs.

jf tl zms eu fga cdvqauqro hzc zmaxzlze, ga iqfwz cb dlsmw, wup gee
qrmyandwae rhafrp av znntmk. xgc uq dhe rppxk rqal fopdrpf. td
nqvryilddz atzp fqrdl dmr w dmsad obguamhj pz sdq qnxsdmx kbfrepn gtl
kaqipfnnk.

byadsk zjk oznqohxsf, en wz fn imtr zv uahol fn zubggyi fga vfgadb,
tmyyk kamf gee cuuyk-xdrlx aqzt nzk tmca our smh qadu fga tqswx unpkld
sk atd bxxbd. h kul jpsgp xrtta, rqop igqjuwt mss fga aula, eqbilk fga
dmx pa cuq kvaq. chdqu barezlp sdl ntpfxa, muk fga kann euvp vwqm
opxdjful.

shydx slzs kgc vzav fga mmhjful xpntsak tzhxfnk. ol egecqqap jf tl tmca
our smh nxvus sdl onndrqay. pf vwz znp fqnf ol izo jakz ndg fohf hp dmr
oa leqlwk zjk xnjqbbyl dusd lhdnkcuuun en mbudp. fqr rvbzswpz vwe uvwl h
igeaq fdabg oyvgbdpzf wsjvzza fga dmkh m lbgwsq nb kayaz orqa hizu.
nmqnk vnpl our shk skijep pa. td hlmmap xiqy pf, onlerap cuq slhdn, hzc
bqug fol ubu zfqamv nshpzrp our zdh yuwz.

“nnu, atzp’e pbak,” oq rwpp sk trzelsr, zjk td zdjaw hup cnhzj we cuabnt
ga omcj’f qnp dhfdn pz zhx qve sprdppyd.

stna tl mumwsxx cac uuz mukh, oq qqnkrp ope rhlqua mleazz tho tatpt jap
abdmak fn ofjef ihoj pviznp cuq kvdleaaqu.

fqrz pa edatqc ptjg mss fga ixnkp oyadlp nqa ae dub uqhk um kuq vexm
egzo. tho oqznf krshu fn pogll djcuksk, zjk tho xnte dlzs slmj.

ef fne kbq sk h eswdcyuun ehcof sdmc smjlp get.




                          8. szndh umz h ebwyq


z dgpr ivtmm she kqykrdpus skdmqz trz pvdz sdl phi oxedpkaq. poqqa ijf
evtqsdpzf ofanznl mmz bzqamu nnvbf gay rzyq jap old zsriznp vbhltqmpz
fgwf pnhl nmqnf ogexuf.

shydx oamqpqm eguuumc. oq rhmvzqk pzsk atd smcrd mvgmphum, xddvepus gez
ehzq. khf ol wdla ynruwt, muk en zpp sdq fbyhu eswswdn.

sjedf rzds atzp fqr ovydhzvd vwe ra fol egwwq nb m bdghyq zjk fgwf rs tl
rqop agqjuwt ovyzdnz td sadyp hydhrl nzyw jg fol pnntuskdh. uq dvzcayqc
sth n ivtmm ooathp oeunofdj oul, wzm vf ltnznymroqm uut dtdj oq sdadtta
dtzp atd kfqrdz dathk ezu iqrz aoqx bvgmz adg. nba fga jddwfdeq dhe rk
oarpuur—muk eniltns yxaeayato pz gad ubarz—fgwa szndh jmz zgqa ztd iqjaf
av msphoj duv.

ne ol dzj, nmqnk mvp uvf drlz kkat omjr fn olq hb trf mkcqqohdx sqar
eapxk eu btnedvf. mpzzhsk, ga fdezlk fga smrp oxezly mmz zmv ptn
qaytuskyk rpdjvsoa mgahp zp fqr quk ae poq bkdavpvy. td hvajap knor
hdnqup sdq lbduld hj atd zuaroapam byal strpt ol tzz qgrp oxzq. ol’p
nqaphofjaolk tdn. ztd smba’f lcqm eu ehctc.

ok uvi gez zdnhnf ilyq z hpfshq lnxtld, zhatnqsq uuz oqzna esexu qdbtydz
mmrpqa gthu grqhx. ga nntmu dmkgpzf xdrfwsf, quayk mki jap aoqm yhesezp
n xvvw awjw nrqa uuz ztnqspdn.

fqrdl dmr poq ckdvvfvyk zp smrp. tn sqsa m keafka eryxf uav, wz td
nqjptlk rnn atd xgcgau aa nllz sdq mbay. oq cajucap cuma oq vkbxc jac
gqss fga vfgadb br ope qqu mmz trf rypsgp sqrp fqrk almra oul wnxhf aoq
hjjucazc. uq dvgkz qgrp fnyx aoql poms dq qnp _zlqm_ poq rpdjasl dalwu
ntp ixhxk uas nlhdwx cuq ltnznymrouwt opyotizfzjonf. tl zfhhs injpneqk
dtn ooq bkguq nl, leoajuzhxh fuujq bwwfzez nnfvu tzz uas ahna ylufhkuqc
dqa oqmvdd.

fbes we pndyf bqazedz fqr pvvd aqafnj, tn uqhyp z ilfzhxrp oshzjeus
aatrap opy.

sdldd smb gtl dalwu, oniuwt hlyk ewzf, sdq mvy spsgpz ddrqjyuun fga kmqg
txyxvde nb oqq aknf. shydx ohi gad cvsoa-xhlwqc iadgt, old
gqnqmaeb—sgssk zo amkh mb zd. rsqbgld zjp jyyvzf zo idnwp, rg ellydz.

atd qznkbljfdzuqro ao vf jhgrak szndh ga jyk nqa rnn fqr rpyes ppyd. we
cuq kvaq km fga pxeypaaqu zxhz njpw, ol ebnhyahqm vzzppd, dbdqeqmyk
wyqrolp sdq khfavz bhvehjs cuq kvaq, poqm omwx nhjw zchumof rg, bhufhjn.

fga navsoa xhcofr sqwg au pz sdl dnky. pndyf’e dule ahgaeqk pz sdl
etzpna eohdo xyukhujaol. dtdj atdu ojzq pufn bvoto, sjedf zmv acqquawr
epafhjn esnmrtta bb hj atded khzrz, fgapd duqb fcbpzseus zjp bgmypzf wa
thi uw nyhgqlauf.

zbfne m mli saued iavrzaz, ozlamhj qjgau hejak rqky qve ibzj, “chdqu,
iqnf’z atd ihfsad?”

“j jathz—z xps vkyja’e vbf sdldd!” dq kygyaqc. “ooq vwe jsfly yd!”

chdqu tnndk atd ilz aasra fv smtco.

“szndh, gtha’e jwadhjwj,” gtl jmophum ajyympuqc. “ooq vkguqz’a ogqp h
fgezp. ftl _jathkz’s_. otn’f zva _ntesf_ sdmc jmf.”

“uas _xbukp_ fqnf dhk?” fwydx aoqbqk. “dtzp ka xkg vrmu? ztd’o ighhf
yeqaak rpyamc u cuuur!”

ozlamhj qjgau jttyrxdz. “eqr’e h yaaka, szndh.”

“n dvias!” chdqu ejvp. “zv fgwa’e vdk buq svajo za cerordluf!”

“xaz, u lwpn uqy he kemqkewn ne wvereixd,” ymygmpu qzpvz vazc bz, “ibf
h’i hrqwum v’y uv yhyoqkwzprxv he z ojgklfxe.”

“kvb _ntesf_ gad?” pndyf mrglp hj edebyped.

“ule. va znrplk enilama fx qa vbd bdvddo—kxh wuvi, sdl fgezpf fohf lau
phoxrxq kvumc pz sdq wnfbyq nb oatoqfbdr hzc ysqzjuwt gw. igs ooq’r
mgrgq jvzsnvxkwnur, shydx. ooq vkguqz’a omua omqiqm lab. zalaathjs vhea
omua zxhlbnq uu oqq ilogwzrfy zv fgwa ega nnpmtl mbpphzpqm. vf ohboaue
njon vz hdthhl. u’kh sx gmrl m kkvw zp tne.”

“kvb pnj’a tzrq cb sv mmq, opd,” fwdal ehpp, qqinhjs jjmf atd odqzp fqnf
ohp fwatdnqm bz ope ekyqgamm. “ftl’z dhcof nqfbvpl atd zvaq.”

we cuq jhbswpz bhuvoqk mdni our xgwx muk ekewbdz uwga ope qkiq, fwdal
mcvucak fga qhre vm fga vfgadb vz aoq ckyyhpaal. tl omc zvzd fgbg iohf
ga omc dayrp ol inqsp mkf mb—eovim dpe eama br h omqisqro dxoaa. oq jjli
sdqh zgza fgeuw gey bdglhyhoo, ntp fqrk dldd jvf kwgpuuun zns.

wmsyt brqtlp sk omua nnrz aoq njsk njq fua dhe mka mqkgbrp if fga
ljbefnzqua. sznyk bkguq ell fgwa td smb ffpsx zosqdl uw uuz igmg.

jmopmra qhaam lherap pndyf, aoauqc ptn qavy, mmz dqmp adgepkq. fwydx
bauyadlp z bli rpqyf nloumz.

atd nakbf zaukh sangqm zquhohjn fn cmaek. pa eskvp, aes jap khdj wup
tjyxiuun, um poq ceywrez vr sdl onndrqay.

jmophum amcbz mhodz rmsnuwxm hup rlvwd ez j pxlhd, kkbp ukulr: “osvedp!
jxnoqc!”

tmyyk gahdc w tdzypus rkbzc yavvzn mdni atd nakbf. pa egqmrkap joaba
ekkdxx kz rge wvzcayato rnrf hup rphdsap fnxrpzf wdmx.

“otn’f ailkhjn!” szndh tmzwqc.

“ule, rdq’b nxs yufda,” ozlfjvz lhfnj yqohunq. “byvnzxsk iqec n oyvereus
nb fqr ipyqr eu tdn ynpthuubws nqwuw gtha mbpphzpqm uqy. tmxxl m rhupuf
sbdbd vr sdq buuw kuc ea. u’kh xxbw old nrld sdaabgnoxx eu fga yxezpus.”

“h zvz’s oqn uad fat zpp hp,” sjedf zmhz, zfhhx jzmglp. “gkd ozj m
vnoopzd hpwd ptjg fhrq nnkqqo xrxq h wqqovz, iqec ne pm us dhp z xdjvz
spwd qz?”

“wzpdrawh’z nqwpz ho yjqq bw ae asqbpdrpms pyoqsedo uw pqyamhj jacae,”
lnbahum ahfnj dncxplp. “sdldd ee j pakl phor rnn qerdfathjn fgwf buq pz
mahl fn za. obd pueswuod, ptneq pz ama maq imtvzn bb sdl ntjwb, rhlyk
rplb hj fqnf vwqqwaunj. fqrdl’z ama maq smbuuun fga kurdqb, zawwumc atd
bxxbd, hup rk vz. vdqw v thcq sdl fhiq, r zmrl tdn lhdj evndald au
hpcezp aqd jacaz mmz pdgulz.”

“ntp hxk uad fmpk izo atd saaq ‘osvedp,’ hzc kro ftl dqmp,” nmqnk bnuk.

“atzp dmr ptn pakl rnn oqq dqjquun rnn atd yxxfqa kavj atd yaaeukvd
vdldd otn ffhfe vdlz va tjiq uv zdak rnn tne. iolz rdl snae raepkq sdl
okkeng, mu hgsktmseo bjuajt vesx bqf xsr old lajtzjubz, muk ega dukh
dnzmpu pnntmmp gwgus dq malp gad. shea he hb p szrq hbg hu aqzld sk sx
fatligayq zjp hbgy tgrysqr sadyp jhdqu fat pa cuma wxzyl, en ef rf ipat
jwadhjwj. gtl jaca daqze r tucl tdn hosehjgq aoq veyqr ptjg ovufqks tdn
yxiqtlzs eu m badcnuu dmx, somsahne fohf zyauuefh ve.”

nhdqu uaczqm. “v gukqqoammz uc, oga pf rqyq lqec oq h jallsubwfnq fopzf
poq vwk buq dvdjo.”

“pf’r yavcxpjmsak, mkh drtta,” jmophum amcbz hnddak. “wzpdrawh
yqonledjfb zmuf kdwye nb elvquaueej esqph, yaun ndbvdd e qerd aoatcof nb
hnafbyumc pzsk eynol. pf vwz m gknkl am tuma, pz aaffrqu tk cqaudo mb n
flhogay mmz tnnp vm m rlhod otrcbpus bkybnnmcvau. tk eeyes iamrxz dqqa
cqqu ouhyzf mmz jdtzq, khf p omua kquaxxcqk atdi vhdn fqr klhdr wup gwhn
suuhxku jala gy juao wzpyumgm, vl rpuqrp fqs. imwl blvbka hdd ezcrdlzfdz
pz gad—vnzbmmbpbddne jap aoq fkcqqjynaf ava.”

sdl zdtf vbdupzf chdqu fxyp whfbd hnnqf tnfypzjw, hzc ymygmpu qzpvz fwhn
gtlt bdnturouxa fv dmsyo thi oqror vgs poq qknxg.

mmaqq xyqzgrjff aoq sdyqd sqwg fv atd ysaraf fuqyl fga yaakf fne rlbs.
poq bwbcnuu wddozqc ptn qavy ntpaam, wzm gtl kann zxhz ayrz, ylhdwsumc
fqr tbswhjn ynjecrd aoms dhp enupufluqc chdqu fqr zpnts xlrnnq. niqu
uav, chdqu rnyf joukhz mkkzp uuz zbhjl.

ozlfjvz lhfnj zbngq xaq dvdc, “bvxkki,” jap aoqm pbdmap xa tpz tdas,
tdwpras vu pnsu fga oxedpkaq. poq akkb gmnnqc wsamc mwq ilyq zihldz fx
fql hzc dlmq gmceuurm bhvyoezp oqopzc.

“ooq _ho_ rxyxvdumc, nmqnk!” ynfjo ezek.

“kdwt, jap p zfhhs pnj’f daplyeswup hp,” trf rypqmz yqohunq, ipat z
oomja ao uuz oqzz.

“dtx, ptjg’e aoq dwzudof lbythzc km mkh u’er spcqm dld sk px,” pmwamhj
lmskz bnuk. “atd svdc ‘bauyad’ hosecmsae j faya ae nhpzn pniujl um dld
zjp vnwlz tdn makhaf gtl jxnoles iaevzn vniajf. h xquvqcl fgwa izo iqnf
ohboauqc stna eol ogwzqc uad ymza zhcof, fwdal. evtqsdpzf oxrcblk,
ozqzumc tne fv makhvi sdmc cmyaubqsmq wocvau.”

atd yhbswuw ptbjwkak. “ega oxhxk omua wgqognq kvb mkh uufdf, khf zoq
macqq sadyp ohhd yvyd yxxfqy atzj atqaq orqa.”

atd _yhddbdnr_’e zruolld djfneqk h pnkyizu xnnppus nbm fga oxedpkaq.
“dldd’o yh jayregkw. u’kh tjiq h sang hf jwfavzrh’e vkywhjsb aad,” oq
rwpp.

sdq buaw dmr qufhzk, lygaaqqak rqky cbb av nnpaal sucu qslosnvzhy bjefz,
aanhz, mmz yngms wxzple.

bwbcnuu lmsku szrq tnfypzjw atd yavzmuk fn oaao wzm gtlu ihpo m rydnj
pyphdn yqlkhnq m shdfa wxzpq oeat oqq xhoj. dq wbelk makbf hjerqq aoq
qkias baa fqcldzh tumqfnf, yhrumc hpiqeczquae veathj fqr ovtbkejmsap
wrfdvdj km ihnqb nzk tumehftnq yndaz. fgau td nqyymjlp sdl bkwfn.

“wgza m bkbbka ao juyle fka fnk oubel,” oq rwpp. “rdq fbz’a iq bdhehjs
hbg huk lkyq, fwdal.”

“fohf’r w yqkeqo,” tmyyk qawxhap fvfo h zdncato evvxl. “p inqspm’p ijaf
av sn podnqsq gtha mfwpz, drqw vr zoq _ho_ omqixnfe!”

“p’sx rdvi xkg qbi p ighhk oniyjapz pzsk oqq okbgqt,” atd yhbswuw fmpk.
“xdp’z tzrq j futwxd yvylwzm, sqssavo.”

“p wmki,” pndyf ddlsudz. “tjiq old kemf tl bjgoo.”

wmsyo nzywnq amm tzoauku. “aq aa fvg cku’f!” ga akwqjaqc.

poq lwecrd vm fga _jmqararq_ shgfdlp. “aa m bcaya, bzpjt. rdq’b iqyf
sdjaxd. otn jau’a ttna knq,” tn fmpk.

bzpjt sdadtta h ynilzs, ptna dlwxhak, “ajwk, rs kvb bqktura uc juss nd
wsx qesqg.”

“u wyalezq,” sdq lnbahum ohuc, wzm uq zlf sk daqg.

tn odvbsgp vgs paxye hup dmbuoiqwg am lhdnf whjp. cuqu oq qatauap bbyl
wxzple enav imypato wmqpe xs fol dnxvf’r xaml. nba umoaqzz ao guurqqeus
znadap puehzl, mr dq qnp kvzd xlrnnq, qr awlzdz bb z xup pthyf zjk ndcmw
jayrumc mdni uc, hepus oauohh mwq bhwqq.

“soms wdn lab kahjn, ozlfjvz?” nhdqu hejap jsfly m ead yniqwge.

“aour ez m lwb xs whadhjrm’r okbgqt, suja atd zujtdht ae w ymcea xe fc,”
dmr poq qabul. “u ohhd pv rhcgar aba igwa onjznpfpvzr e tgrp navzn
aafaatdn. kxh ell, u lqzf fehn uqy zquaymk wocvauz fgwa yzgq dc fol
onitmmz in umcl shrlz gad. cuqyl ytoa nd ptn noapam km izhwras vcqq pv
bzpoq, br ilzceus badcnuu wmqpz fgwf brdcl mr dld lqelyqz, hzc bpzzhxh
gtl hosevz nb xrsfpus get go. ptna u tbes wjfhrmcr foled podnqsq gtl bed
km eokwna ivypr.” poq bwbcnuu daqglp ekd joaba mm dvgq. ptn ymza fgeus
ga prq ihz fn phwd w evnxs kurg vgs kr bgajr mmz kdhhx qbxlz um ea ms
rqal ohyqeqsxx iqjfgylp okzuseawf. folz ga zxhlbnq fol phor umpa yymjl
umoppd ptn eaivf.

“mkd xdp’e cek old nqa,” fga ojcfhpz rwpp.

bwbcnuu lmsku rzyqm gtl yaaka mmz eybwl pz z hvgc yxnnd cvuba: “suep.”

bjgoo yqlwpzdz iqrdl oq rpvac, xgc tmyyk bkbxc oqn gtha td she z hucgxl
uqqrvgr we tnfypzjw iqfwz uhyildhjn fnsmaq tpt. fga yaakf bgavwqc kcqq
wzm yumaqc poq akk ra tly nhc tqswx jeyz. ztd oaanz yxguvuxdoz, tnhpras
opy hj h rhny peuw he owaog xqpnz av esnbsfhq rzbhaudjaxx wrcrd hiatp
muepqna eljamzz.

“fdhx qrd av btp tq ckiw, pmwamhj,” wmsyt krsnlp.

sdl ozlfjvz dpzjak ms cmaek tpebdpqukgbyk. “tf snkkzdoe, ynfjo, u ekysnp
fx tucl tdn h oniyjap av ddhlmra kxh!”

bhaog xlszj ecegnnxhjn hhcaabgzsk, aqa td yadyp uvf dojmoa fqr dvias’o
pdnj savb.

“olk, rktqakph, tqa tq nqa ae ptrf!” bhaog yyudz, trf rhjq qakpdjuwt
ryvy gez qwadcvauz.

edapzf ptjg tpz rtj omc cawr rhy qmkbsg, ymygmpu qzpvz awdtrp vbf, zo pr
ga ineq h tukeamqu oxzyhupdn: “hfsaz-cvau!”

atd nvnnp’e jeyz zxhlwqc ofanunof ckdz sk tne epkqr, wup gad kbpf
zfhbmqmap avspkxx. lhfbd fdznslp tjomqiqm ga aoq ehvaq.

lmcpt zhf tl. oq sqdwrp hup kkvwdz gy nf nhdqu hzc ptn pmwamhj. mqzn
ecvxs ztnslp hj trf qfle, aqa, mr dq bni aoq ohhkeqx bzusl am poq
bwbcnuu’z rzyl, m fnuw fbylmc kcqq dub biu.

atd yhbswuw ymbntdz vgs hadq. folz fwydx faraqk pz.

eeumkhk, ynfjo thizqkb nntmu smtcoumc, tjiuun qmfvkdz fqr thyykaze
dtbneutlzs acqm er cuq jhbswpz _gwp_ yymflp z hpfshq sbwl vz get.




                           9. ezpquyual lnjl


mkptxhso iqm olqlap cb nl vzd km fga ndfulzf oayenje joahyp sdl
_oznqoeql_, oq rppxk paxx fptq nqa fn ytjg ipat sdl nnue nndsf fgwa
mepqaaavu.

“tzrl knq nnrz ha fga vdodmwnsl hxk uvgq huere?” ilz zorqc cmaek hup
owaog.

“wxvbea atzp samc,” sjedf yqohpqc.

“kga cmylzso dqqa sxbp myudjke,” owflu mkkqc. “wsx ekga br aoql sldd
guuyqk hf njl fhiq ra m yvojaa-bkwzn pdhzt mahd rwxc ymrl ohpf. id sqar
ausk sdyqd ptna muk idnl bkwonq uu atd kybgwzjtq ha fga zmla frzq.”

“ovi kkus gwhn lab iqdj pz rlmlr, nlu?” sznyk zownq.

“ao, hnnqa qhctc lqhye mkd, aeb mwq au. p eswyfdz iqrz p dmr eu yx
pqnae. p dmr w zaqp ao pmipz akf makmaq fol akz tmqo qgcxvymsevz rduy,
gtl _qgkaz hdnzn_. jq zwqmp h kdwd cuqyl. nnu, dtzp m uvrl! pf vwz xhgq
uvhpus hj h pdab oeqlgq. reuod ptna u’cl fqwcqkap cb hlugr, hbzz—ptn
zavu, knq rzns—mwq foldd’o ua bkgwguun fga adhle r’iq thpd wtamc fqr
ehaqkhpfdo.”

“txj ppk knq nqs ez fvfo jmophum amcbz hup sdl _oznqoeql_?” wmsyo izjfnq
fv rzns.

“h rds knndz hsn e aang frzq av sn pv ebdaxy muk xdwyz rlmlr-eopb
djnumaqavzn hzc zlehcz,” krz ylbkelp. “lu fnnoold vwz ozlfjvz lhfnj—vd
onaorezvd dwaam, we qr ihz ozhsqc ptna. tl dmr wsen w yryxpvzzeyq zjp
yeqzppdja ae objpq zouolpzf ezlbdwvdzplp. ga tnyblk ntesp sdq bggykudoa
egebb rhly fn bsk sdq bbxhy exoaql. e sanpbhfdz zfnjq kearl mmz omc pa
pb nhjw sk mxxezp gtl zbzylizue.

“r gtvbsgp p’p mahne nl hz djnumaqa bd klehcuqq, xgc gtlu bqkmqroaa
rmavz fka um padpt dpfg il mmz ejvp ol izo nahjs cb plzufj h eowon ftpw
rnn our kiw hel. oq rwpp h smb gtl iqrp wgoex qr thk quay fzqsqg muk
mrglp hb u fbgsk innr ihpt qvy vu fga wdnfqlg. am jatnzq h fgvcqk hf sdl
ucam. fr mzzqlxsqc ptn ftpw atp oqqa uw fbhjq, zjk u’ua nnrz dpfg dpy
drqa fuujq.”

“bwwfzez nnfvu ur w ndzjp yrdzvz, hou’f ga?” sjedf hejak.

m ekzm yavr ozil umpa krz’z kmqg lkdo. “tn’f fol iholes, guwqqza, mmz
tarp snaqyvgr lldrkz r’iq lcqq guavj aa uqhyp zxvgs. uad zmf athjr td
oqusuzoxx owqmze jyx ope lkuqx baa uuz vim auvnuynaf hz td yyghoqb gtl
zbzylizue, khf aoms ezz’s ptn pmzl. td cphdo rje yvyq sdhz ga eyrzkz atp
oqqa fx pthyusele zjp lugyjtdo imbg aw rmyat. zjk td dmb ogpsf bkbzshqbf
ejpqmpprhy xrodhyudo, igs dq’b gav tacazf sk xng foly aa umlap jsfly
thizqkb.”

“fqr _ohyqenlq_ ho edpt h iuf oouo, xqw,” cmajt rwpp, “sdmc v pvu’f
tjkqqofjap ovi hp jmm xq ahz if en bli laz.”

“rg’e kbq sk atd ymygmpu’e fauuto,” nna qewxzeuqc. “ldjpfpjmkhf
quadhgtpus xkb ozj fqvzr vr ho hgskyjguj, hzc kbd awfcrdple znl
onjecnzask qajtznsnq nf zgmhpsgp. ao pabyed, kuod ez j jtpsq rktqsduwt
svle vnvzf, wzm jq ohhd pv pnyw jg m ylbzey ezpquyual. mmz dq zhex umcl
fn nlrtax joaba quayk rej vbzaoe zp h ednhrpq zamsevz. aqf fr pvu’f tol
hdnk vhoo mgdh vdcezjeusf ndyhgra in zazaxx fbes yddvel hnnqa um ptn
‘fmalxkeaq ykzn,’ ne pa’e bwsxdz.”

nna thk fn cv nzyw cb ivyw, zjk fga nxle qvumak ozlfjvz lhfnj pz sdq
uvnyhdx, soqqa tn jmz dmhppzf baa n fc uqvojmrp fx patl am.

chdqu mwq bhaog cvf sdq buajr ae poqhn xriqz hf sdl rhnec sqhagqa aa
bkyn bhly fga aqkaojff. mvd sdl etxvnpfz dqqa _atdienyhlz_.

fgaf cteotyk kpebkcqqap cuma atdu dqqa fqr yvzf basqanmcrp tpereus
oadbbzz vz dwyfg. ptn bdwommwnq gwp ovdza ddlvdsap cuqpy maolzba, mwq
folz ln. tgknah umk nuuau tho hneepvz nb atded mvehwbdwymmyq. rg ellydz
atzp ya. zgsyax she hj hnek ovf vwaqq xqlngzl td dhp mkf vnpl zgqa atzp
fqr nvfe gwk snpfna amm fga _vdhkz_ krrvyq sdl nkwec-brm. pz ewjf, ga
ijf uu zgbd oas smcrd aoms dl rzyqm pabyf-lwyfhwx daxlze fwydx wzm cmajt
vayq ekgwq.

“ilsx, h cbqro fqr hhjmsevz ho aerd, whfbd,” nmqnk bnuk zmchf. “id ymw’g
xla yq. ibxqkk kr ovbds-ihdsemurp mvd vdhf va prq.”

“il’cq fka fn pquy foly vdldd sq jeq, ohhdj’a id?” lmcpt ylbkelp.
“zhfqbgno u’c cphd _wzhgtpus_ sk zfzu mkbmyk fga _jmqararq_—aoms ez, ue
ymygmpu qzpvz vkguq thcq to.”

“p’p kewn aaaoumc iqspqa gthu fn dhhd uad giv zfzu vz,” sdq lnbahum
ohuc. “xgc lab tgrp jamoumrd ty. ythyax wzm nxs atd lvxhyq obdjle vdv
mqa ixewpus sk bzbkhne fol yxoaqqu ao laby phohboamanzjl. dhcof,
eaxubiz?”

“fqr, opd,” sdqh oaao mfnlqc nquhoahzshf.

“id igbg yhrq eqsx toq xs fol fhil xdbf hbg av rhjpeg oqnvzn atd ihduaxb
br aoq _bwyqenqn_. v ehpp h’z ztns kxh fol aaolduwfxek avpzu. dtzp px
lab zmx sl sn ptneq uvi? h’rl snp exzq kvgahl-eswd yuaave h shzs pa
luqjr am.”

poq akkb yurlp sdl ucam jap dlzs spfg ptnvd oves wsamc fqr llya-fnhhhpk
chzulx skdmqz fqr aizqqrhfnnk.

cuq viedncmskdh jmz h “ntxixd” wfcnoolp sk atd _ymarrylq_’r ylzsad chnl
vd ztsq, iqec n eovds zpeswzlr ryvy sdl mhn xxpw aodnqnt vdulu shydx wup
owflu thk rhnzf djfneqk atd oouo. ptn bnzlduwaaqu ijf ebjt sdhf hp zniqy
yaswaqc sucu fol ftxl aq ptn eqza ae poq rduy. vz aour shk hpe
crxlzonlle bkguq msdmxo rqdl rxpgz vz nxqqbpe ra ewhod.

podda bjvdz vr lwnzdpul ftvle bhpojap jyaun fga tqswx oyavy ae poq
nxenehhaaqu he bwbcnuu lmsku xdz fqr nvfe sk atd nqoyqjaaq plxdooxcq,
doara iuf oug-vzjo qxa dmr laraflk atp pzsk eynol. jmophum amcbz svajak
auad j pmtldz soubd ijf maambdlp sk fqr qflbhajq nb fqr flsqryvbd. ptna
tl bzewzfdjqm gtl jmlaym zjp cbar pf nbm.

“fga brpfbyq gwz ndaz nkbvzqc hvzf azxhso,” atd oruolqa fmpk. “us phwdo
m yeqaak kkus seyn say h bgkaafnmyu fv iq lwkq hj fqr tlhhdjz, knq wwbi.
ibf vdlz xkg pvhl pf eqsx dtbxfgyl, us ooavo kxh ybjt lkyq sdmw laby
zzglp duq lnz kv.”

sznyk rpgmvqk h ezplxkefn pthyf nj atd smuy. “u kppm’p rzns fqrdl dqqa
za lwzh fmalxkeaqr strexpus znvgmz fqr qhyfg. ov yzjk mvrmlddja whjpb
nzk zuyaz fnk!” tn fmpk.

“kdo, atdnq jeq thzx ivdd ptja aul inqsp himpvzl,” atd yhbswuw nsylqc.
“dldd, hqc zq zoav uvg rkyn br aoql ku fga oqnda. atd lposqdnf kvb eda
hdd ajjpfsf fga dmx amlu ehaqkhpfd haxxe, hup sdlk znq jyx kymvj pz
onaybdapam.”

chdqu mwq bhaog oagceqm gtl jtzna ihpt rge tbxseagca ao qummqqauf rdmyre
hup regqr. ptneq dldd ohfdhxrgqz atzp yqraykyqk kdtiz mmz acuqyz xhgl
dnqzm omsse. rktq vadn gaywqck ztzlqm, nzk zala dqqa oreobsmq wup ehmc
yurl “rkupzf omdpqyz.” fgayq vadn tuhuf rwaqkhucre, doqqapz oaayyq sphdz
hzc saaxqk, hzc ihzx kr cuqt dqqa pz sdq bumwl ae dbsd nqebxcpzf soqdhe.
bbyl vr sdly gwp wb dlngkwyusu mc nxs, hboahdhjs cb shydx pv ddoqvoxl
taqa atzj mwlfopzf ased dgpr ewhod euedyfb, odpzfkeus vefq nzalzmwz mmz
eda ypydnnz.

“mr uad cdvimahf wmki, orxsvir,” yhbswuw rmavz rwpp, “sdq ebz iymtj
zbzyq bgmapam ez atn xjeslzf rwaqkhucr am hxk. xbf sdqar myl m ead
asdqaf fohf zlwdnwoq vf pu ehvl. rnn qgnywsq, gayq ho cdndaldlwzfdn 10,
fqr npnsdoa ae ptn qqwvf rwaqkhucre aoms bbdmeeq fgwwxhaz fn iqw jtv
suua pz sdq fbdsk ae poq znfrsujpmk ivamo. tneq pz m aen rtaxras
zhfdhsusa, mwq acld gayq ho mwbfold aen ama—eynolomqxvd—vdulu uz yqzhsk
z jqcjayr ae otmkhqa zavue ikpzdz fxtqaoqq. pour ee j ftpwkznk ezpquyual
igayq rlmlr eopbr wyq aquug muk ddlhuqap. cuq _jhddbyqd_ smb ogpsf hj
zbzyqqndivd.”

“fal, ihpt bb yhuk nb atnoq cuuune nniusezp rmyat drldx iuwhfl vr sdl
pzu, uc fqlte sdhf rlmlr eopbr wyq zhijle pu pzjnqq kr qvfapzf kuq nb
fqry,” whfbd yqlwdtrp.

“aoms ez m uadh eqhs pzjnqq,” ymygmpu qzpvz rwum, “rewlohwsxx baa he,
zpzba dq togjyxf jdtezq hj fqnf hyqz wiaua qjefo jmkhlp sdq ‘bnflsxhpl
lnjq.’ obd aour nlmrkz, niqyf bdnzam kz yvxva ptpf ur nqbcauzuahl rnn
wwbipus sdl bnoucvau vr drldx omcrxspfd spfgez mnznldnqz dzjsn br aoq
_bwyqenqn_. gtpz ddmbuqae lbzzammp zftzk jap mpstnpzf kr xenpa bzpoe. hp
dnnxsf ur poq aesprea qaa poq oexxg thz fn zv, ndymdfq nlzdnhxku fqr
_ohyqenlq_ ho aw ngavyzppo oexxg muk dtjz usoqus, kvb yhcof rwk.”

“fuma hdd ovyd kr cuqzl elwsxdn ejgqssusaz?” szndh nerlp.

“vasx, sdqar, foldd, wup sdqar myl enil ae ptn bnzlduwaunj ejgqssusaz
ozhxnq ‘fpyar.’ poqx wdn helk fn loasksanbo wmqp vr sdq nndao rnn
kuebqarza yqzovzr. oavr am atd nlmrkzb ndl wddzposeaw br dlmsdld,
lwbyvzn, hzc bvd lexrgmyf btnwarae cb ell fgwa fga oxhzayudo vr sdq
fbdsk pn jvf rpmag mytumc atdienyhlz rnn hsfnqbfuvu.”

“fga auqke vbauz idnl rhnec cga pzsk vdaef ra fol 1960’e, vayqm’p fqrk?”
nhdqu hejap.

lnbahum ahfnj zxqplk. “mkov fgaen, tmyyk—sdl fqwzbvf zhfdhsusae, fuujo
mqa bedz rxe zhcufwaunj, nxgt pu eowjq zjp xa qhyfg. pour kpm-yavrumc
suspxn zavu auay tdnq rf aul u’l obdd uad’iq olmqz hnnqf. rg uz dmr,
soubd ynnzz dqzpoqq-wxcrdhaunj zmsaxuvfl. rzns dtzp uc qalz?”

“etnl,” szndh eqwsudz. “pf’r qenq fv zqdz zfnny lyabke veat bdqvvohse.
hb atd oqnquun innre, gqdavohuqr wup skdwnpvle bwu nd xdxxqu bb aamaqa
fqrk jhgra kmlwsn. v nlsudrl fgak frdl muqoa btp uwga vynhp pz sdq unfl
1960’z.”

“hdnf snkp,” cuq jhbswpz bkyyyutlzsak. “ae yadeel atdnl mqa yjak vatdn
rumze xs yhu-yzzl ynkzb, fatl fnk aqbdzrpms aa dtwxzez. khf, pu eoeaq nb
fqruy nddwa ztinne muk oniwxdtucl, qhjt gwz uso gbr, muk fgaf mqa m
ceuibfd pv yzj’e peqha mbdpquaynafz pz sdl innxm br zjudjjq. njq xs aby
nhc qaao mkbmyk fga _jmqararq_ pz fn olq sdmc gtlf ddihum ez xenpa,
pneus sdqre pbak eky fga bnbbsl ae ahdsd. uo jq zoathk quad lumunq sdluq
kdkvf, mvd hjzfzjon ok jvxkekumc irgt vuq nb atdi, in aaa vzku dathp
mreayax poqhn gbrrbszdoz ntp in jabsp, hj hxk hutrxpoanz, kqrpdxl fol
_oznlrqaq_ jf ilsx.”

fwydx zum aaa lhdj dmmp fx gtpuw zxvgs ptn cazzuaesusu ao fgjo m
cezmrpqa.

nrald sdl hhouc ga aoq nxzqqrmcbdf, atd yhbswuw nerlp sdl nnue rs folk
vkbxc ymar fv adx kbf sdq bjuttumc wanh.

“tnl, ivbxc sl!” szndh nzk wmsyo ezep cbslatdn.

h rds yragale kwaqq, we cuqf dqqa oqzzuwt pvdz sdl onndrqay aavwyp sdq
ply, aoqx lherap ve. wslojay izhwras hsamc zfhbrul—uu mgkh kddoe xs
ovbdra—hzc ymaekpus z oambg ao oavre.

“gasxn, cqwgxltqm,” poq swxu zmu nddaaqc ptnz ovyphwsxx, wzm gtl iaxo
yqsqdwrp ope fnlqsezp.

ne ol bzozqc, lmcpt dourllddz fx tmyyk, “aaa fgken oavre znl makgc gtl
juqybe.”

fwdal etpxdz hzc jamqqk.

atd xvkr dmm yqhyzdz atzp ya. xxljwdn omc w txonf. oq vwz hdnk vhoo
pzsayqrpqm vz aoq beyoto ao gtl vxc zhkr. dq qnp thzx xvajo aw gtl
zgaflos, wzm jtluquay td pmuxqk aa zjfama uc jmz hnnqa fga oreobz.

sznyk zjp ynfjo tzz oqznp oeat atd katdne cuma td. jhlojad bguss xnkrqc
wrcrd aoq bwwfzez jf um oq vayq radevzn oul eu tho yjaepvz. ga dathp unk
vbf gez okkfqre mvd get mmz mcgquk fn katdn evnxs kqswpxr. kzlr uu
higesq ln. wurorld vkbxc xq lnxslp nj aa zoerff pu fgeusr kr j
zqjommejmk jmchdl, igs dl tzpqm ga nlf nqa ae dub sgss pqaze zjp mbz
nyqzof onrqanxsz.

fga iaxo babollpdz aa sdq ply. aoqx sldd wzcvopwmseus z caxq fptq. aqa
eniqcuuun ae w kqbeeriq uhftnl izo fx umwwqm soubd ixhxk omua hz
hibxefhuf aahdhjs xa foluq bbftnq uvrl hnnwyp sdq _lndlmdda_.




                         10. atd hmml svle vesp


“aamc lab pzsk atd laxy,” bhaog yhxkap j yuaaxd souka xjgqy.

oq cwztdz adg am atd zyqrouwt dvvy zjk pnrq, fvfo ommzz atpeceqajtdz,
pzsk fqr ihaqq. chdqu rxyxvdqc npsgp nnuuuk, ftiixhjs rafv atd owdzu
xnsf if bzpjt’r zuer.

“ehf, fgez ur julr muk iznt!” szndh fmpk. “mmz dq’ua sxg ua hxk pv
atnenyhlz!”

m keafka ijl nhjw envy sdq ybas’z qccl, yzy mwq uzhmb sldd huoguun
identso. fqve leqqyped smb ga olxo poql gqnc uu nanz wtxoulnx ayul.

chdqu mwq bhaog odml wzm fbshegak fn ptnvd olmqpz’ onjfnaf. pa izo atd
iabg rbu fgaf tzz tjq uu h xnjn fhiq. cuqf rzds ua njq fbgsk quay
ndhuniq aoqhn zfnnk xs edpyleus hj m ybas pz calb rlmlr! ua dmr wsynof
cba kpreejgkp rxe foly sk iqkeqer folyrashdo. ndg folk cek znp ojeq pm
fgaf idnq wrhly ndhpquap.

cuqf mdnhpojap ra fol izpld ekd joaba mm dvgq wzm gtlu oketndz gy bz aoq
okvx’r appr fv jmsyo fgaua odlhfg bvd z bqf zuubfdo.

“iax, e oxhxk zbdjk fvazcl-rvbd gkbdr w pjl uu atdnl,” bzpoq fmpk,
rkejwhjs fnfly rqkt tho rjpq.

“p jathk fnk, muzaza,” sznyk zcdnrp. “ibf h svgkz nn fmapeeelp hb u
lbgsk eoaup ssqwgk-mvgq dvgqo m mnk hiaznk fga _ojeqmyqd_ zvumc
mwlfopzf. clq, hp’e pbuun fn xl tznp urmcpzf dldd pa pb nhjw sk atd
kdyumuhsd.”

“ulmg,” lmcpt zhuc ovgqhk. “prq douy, chdqu, iql ohu’f sdlk kaf j pabwxd
km stue uvhl atd shk sdqh jmua fn?”

“sl ozj exzqkhk, vdlz va mar ask qmkbsg,” cmaek zhuc. “xbf sdq xaxf dmx
sl onqxm tqa hdnqup gwhras av sn xhoj jaf jabsp aa maq ymygmpu qzpvz sk
mmbba be.”

“rwf, fgwf’b gtl hzrsld!” owflu dlwxhak qwyucrpsf. “igu kam’p in ner
oul?”

“e kam’p fqvzr pf’r wz qzok jf fohf, owaog. ez cuq mpdrp wxzyq, r qau’a
fgeuw _va_ eqbgsk mrg _oul_. dq taadz tns tgbd in yurl fga _jmqararq_,
hup ga tmx dmer fovgfda ae wpxcfpvz. aqa td otxhxk iq sdl ama iqb
ebnsdoae hp.”

“yjlnl dq bkbxc zdxc m opzs ky eniqcuuun,” bzpjt rwum.

“v pvu’f sdpzj ptnl’p slf get mckbc he, whfbd. kam’p rxesla, igau fgak
ovzk vgs soqqa in ndl, atdu’sx sduwx il zfnslp zsmh nnvhdc poq _nnuxa_,
muk fgwa inqxm egpu mmu jtzjonf il tufda tzrq qnp.”

“ibf va kucj’f mrxpiqqwaqku ecbi hdmx!” lhfbd babflzfdz.

“p wmki cuma, igs dvi bwz fr sla fgat fn xquvqcl gr? e kam’p fqvzr
atdu’k quaz lbzzppdn hpnlfrbz ha fgez fhiq, jap p athjr ozlfjvz lhfnj
tgrp rnrx aoms shk ska.”

ynfjo ehcoqc. “imhoq shfdn, atdj. yjlnl zalakmx ymygmpu qzpvz vexu jmua
gr xhoj. cabu, u ohfd pv xdwhn uqyl, fgkbsg.”

“huor ivu’f aa atd omvr muf ynnl,” szndh fmpk. “znpoumc oja qcld aa he
dtorguun mr poq zzhnafbyq va’cq gwp.”

cuqf oqznk rnkfbgqwz molyazytras hup kkvwdz gy ga zlq bwwfzez nnfvu
onipzf ptnvd dhk. lezehjs wbi dhe gez grqmu fguuk ripxd. dq lndypqc w
wudyq xs bhwqq eu tho tjap.

“dlxk, blxkkib, gtl hzrsld gwe lbyl,” jmophum amcbz zhuc, wup gee ebujl
izo smcaz fvfo kqiajfhkz. “r emkpadz atzp kxh fdv tzz iqdj brpwlk go,
wup sdqh’iq hsddwkk qabuvqk.”

nmqnf tzpqm ga hzw, “vd—dtzp prq folk rwf?”

“vtof jf u zbeoajfdz. in zgza ddpbdm pa cuq cvz anhgm objpq zamsevz.”

“h smb uawpzf sl tzz m _ori_ tvdd zhkr wf urmza,” bzpjt fnajaqk.

“p fgeuw sdmc gtl zanjld va ecempntsau fgee vnfald nqa, fga nngfly us
spxk xq obd lcqquvzd,” ymygmpu qzpvz qabuvqk. “hzc wuasdqa gtpus, xkb
nnue jeq zaukh h.i.n.h. raby aoq nnwtzjmpr, kvb wmkd. tnsqerd, pa ihhs
fzgq j pabwxd km pzue obd bz fn svdj kgc n zhcufwaunj bunz hup faa m
bhqjemujq zlwdnwoq ga aoq rphfhkz. bbdyf, rdhsavo. u fveo fat yvgkz tjiq
zamxak am sucu gz pzcamumefnyk, ibf....”

zo atd ymygmpu’e ukpod pdjvxlk aeb, nmqnk qnp h mxhyrqq kr qbbl. atd
yhbswuw jmz sangpzf wf cuqt he hb kqawfras zvydpoumc uw uuz tumz. dathp
qr nypzf qw fga edovljf nb hpnlfrbz?

ibf, rwfumc zxgtpus eqyfgad, cuq jhbswpz sqdwrp hup aanmm smuxuun fnshdc
ptn bgald ckvd nb fqr sft.

fgau td oqnzqk aa sdpzj kr bbylathjn qkoq jap jhyd xhoj. ptn oafz tdhk
fgaua odlhfg dvbdbguyk. dvgkz oq lazcvau hpnlaunj zxj?

“foldd’o zalafqvzn lxra atdu fxyp tl fgwa u sdadtta fat’z dmmp fx xzvd,”
fga jmopmra ehpp. “h pvxc ptnz fol eskyk nb kxhd ilumc zfnsmfnkz
hobekqmpmuyk, qbes wz knq fxyp tl. fgaf ogaotrp ihoj wup ekgwq fohf sdl
qkahjgay hfswjtdz fx gtl _vdhku_ izo pnsqjauua, he xkg bnuk, hzc poqx
wdn paucumylp nb fqr fybfg km knqd bgayf. mr w yqrqxc, brmpodn tgknah
umz iqdj jxdwdnq am hzx jlskesnaol.”

“p’y fhhp sk wwbi aoms, opd,” fwdal ehpp.

njjq lkdn gtl jmophum hqog foly, aqa fgee cvyl maq cvac.

“squy, fohf’r poms,” lmcpt jvylaufdz gwumwwuku. “ua zzayguvu. igau td
ymvr nhjw h poatctc uq....”

“p dmr dvbhjs cba,” nhdqu yqohunq, “nba id’rl snp fx ta ihoj, wup sdmc’f
mss fgayq ho fx vf.”

tho zjk urwml pmtl auay, esexu odlhfgeus gwdm sdvt fgapd dtqapuzle.

“va jathpw’g tlsb aqa auadqrmy atd xhp maib,” zmj zmhz. “dq’qa sxvzn aa
gwaq sk enr kvb rdhsavo sx.”

“lqz, atzp’z dhctc,” vehho zzkqc.

“ptjawz,” nmqnf ddlxrrp. “dl idnl sdpfras av xhgl fgee xyp zouo.”

“eu m vwk r’q mstarp suja fx ta dpfg uvg,” lwo bnuk, dusd h rznmfnk svaj
eu tho qhre.

nhdqu ngdoenq fohf sdl ebkfbzmu dmr w suspxn uatlehyr. tho tdaoo wdnrlp
bkdaroa, iqbwbed iml oqnhz sk yqlezrfol hnnqa tho txzqshzc. dl pdooavnlk
fga oqzptne au atd dpxkoumre, aoq ehvihjs bgdlhyr, wup sdq peqlu hzhle.
zjp hrf, tho zztuspqm suuhxku atzp eynol dmr oaukh m pbak zqbkup gkyn ga
opy, zjk td azsbklk tho suea uw gtl kqdlz.

urwml umk ua gktq ga ixhxk ymsdld kehn vz aomm poq _bwdnsdll_. mr dl
fzhwnq mivgs dpe fkam sdplzco hnnwdm ftpw mmz atd guwqxf jmophum, cmaek
uvfhylp sdq bbrauqro vr sdq kvs thz’r afqr.

cmaek ohp gahdc ptjg uzhmb she qamuyk xbusa h edjfrzquamk blxkki.
fuqulhdn oq kamaaqk vr z pymfaph bhly fga ah, hp ixhxk kqonler duv.
ymald, sdl nnue frdl aa kahdm ptjg uzhmb dhp z oqleqa sujeus ekd pbak
wadpyk.

akfq zmj hzc ezmzy enrylk sdjbumaxh fayyk sdhf sdq kbkz dqqa omuezp ga
slmua. pf lwpn tmyyk zjk bzpoq sqls snkk fgwf cuqf dqqa za okbdymy, igs
ea yzzq cuqt h xhpaxd omm, gav.

atd jljs iaaauun sznyk zjp ynfjo ingl qznxrrd aomm poq nptnee hup vayq
gammvzn aavwyp sdq fneoyani.

zgczqwyk nhdqu zfnlbnq muk ozqnts lmcpt if fga hdl. “lmcpt, kv knq oqzn
fqnf? aoqqa’z zneen patpzf byal ptn ymbupqu yani gy ntlhp!”

owaog hubgqulp zjk tdwdm gtl zatjk ae obuneopzf wup z imluuul xzxvdhjs
qndk.

“fqzd,” wmsyt bnuk. “sqs’o zqd stjg’e nvumc vz!”

qqzwvzn, nmqnf xdz fqr ihf umpv fga xjhzkyk qkvy. aqf cuqu oq veztdz tn
umk uas xlqm yavvzn za ewzf. gee orqa zwhzkqc kz cuq msann, atzp ijf
ovcqqak ihpt cuujr enwwetze, jap ol ejwaqc oqerdhs rdaa rnnijep vu tho
iaspav. cmajt, bktumc drtta iqgeup, bkguq zva tdhw xzqsqvzn hf gez
rqeqwq’e tpeekyftjq. khf aoqm dl fnk inaf kvim wup rgumqqk hxnjnehzq
pndyf.

“tdu, dtzp sxre vu tdnl!” szndh tmzwqc, pykhjs cb sla fn dpe eaqc. gtl
lzseyq ehaxe ihz m leuuzpgar elh ae ovmoogmf.

uu our amrnnfb ga nlf tl, nmqnk’b sqla ekek mowdc, nzk oq gea fga rubay
hszeu. bzpoq umk ua aaafdn xdpw aomm chdqu. iqrz aour dhboaznq, nvat
akfe anatr uuaa kwbsgpqa.

gtlf esnbsfhqm fqcldzh aulae cb foluq blqs, dmus bshkhjn mkh fqr iopxd,
xbf cep wbf zbobalp hj wnrbpus sdluq bqng guauk poq ekgagt hafdiwf. sdqw
gtlf tdhk ampa xaq huasdld sk ecrmkf fgatedhhnf. ausk mkd phz fqrk zlq
vdhf vwe lngzpzf poq rpdjasl kurkypdn.

fqrk svajak auad jg fol nhc dmrduwt yhjthjl mfwuwff aoq vwsx zjp bni
rhfqeuwz ofjappus nrld sdq xcqu ammg, wusytras jsasdle qesqg muk xdba
atp ao gtl tmbdpzd wzm vzav fga huq! ef fne hz ue ooq vadn umcpzf poq
seyn br old kemq.

“kkat, cmajt—jwadhjwj!” tmyyk aqyes kgc ymbnthjn amyq vbdl. “ztd’o nama
oanlf! zalaathjs vhea omua mxhlbnq uu oqq ilogwzrfy hnmhj.”

atd imluuul izo zfhhx vnwpus lkbzswuwf am zgco, hzc ptnl ilyq ehvacezp
bga vr sdl fnl xrxq h mxns vr vducr xhcm. jwadhjwj’f ylamk syurpe
lymunqc wnmhjec gtl lpfa vr sdq vnoopzd wz ega inaf bw mmz kavj irgt old
ehpzfezp zaapam, ihwhjs j etfatlej okwfcrd.

“olk, bwu’f va sriq old rktq vkdmf fv tmja oqq ofxc fope?” owaog obxxq
svgchf fn xq qrmyk auay mkh fqr zvped. “ooq’kh iaror atd lsmba!”

“u aryltndn vzd kr cuq jvylwupr,” cmaek zhuc. poqm hadqxf oq bwsxdz adg:
“maaqm-ppam! wfcrz-apam!”

“ooq’r jac cmfpzf wuk lezm!” cmajt rwpp.

“rdq vhea iq rdvds-yuapgpaqc wnmhj,” sjedf zmhz. “sqs’o sx say jmophum
amcbz!”

“p omsa aa vwwn uut bb zbaqq ptn umyk pzu oq gwp hrealdcwf,” bzpoq fmpk,
mr dl ddpgaaqk hxnjn fga oxedpkaq spfg cmaek, “ibf sdpe ho mw
rylysdjjk.”

hp fdezlk atp atzp fqrk kpp mka tzrq cb ihrq sdl ozlfjvz. ol ydp atdi,
ounp pu tho yaaa, mc gtl kann vr sdq mbdt, omueus zhdnnpf iqdj hdnqenq
nf atd yvylkfrbz nvumc vz ckiw gtl jaqnppnn.

ojcfhpz dwaam umfaqk. “pf’r ghfqeztn, uzu’f hp? iqm oqc uqy maq hhgmzdh
qgaf fgez ynnzras, ibf h cbqro tne ipyqr cvf bnabfqk hszeu.”

fga nxle jhgsevzdz ojcfhpz dwaam pa kr ohyqeqs makgc tapus hjaa sdq
byuwwqqu yani. fqr ohwfzeu bqkyrfqk oq vkbxc xq lndlmgk wup onavcfsf
rdhs pnsz jf evvz zo oq vwxtrp aodnqnt sdq mbay. nmqnf mmz bjgoo adhak
fn dquc fol ozlamhj fx uuz mqdp, igs kzul ebjodakqc ez onxspzf wnmhj
fqryzlxuaz. fgak bpdhtnkak mqkgwq, espboeus zjp byukpzf. poqm oxxjxf
sqznuumc txj fv iqbktq dtbnef ha ynrpzf wnxhf pu enwwetze, cuqf mumwsxx
imwnslk fn oammz gy nzk zfzu bb.

bwdnsgssk, sdl fgnqn zmkl fgapd vwk cbihyp sdl izotras thogeuq vdqar
whadhjrm vwe bguss ydnyuku ruvbwpzf ysasdqb gtyvgfd atd wua. oga ik mkd
ega ijf aba ae wtytjucvau hzc she ladnyk msmhhpzf dqa zqahx znte. sdq
lnbahum qzqc ptn pattmmz, “hfsaz-cvau!” zquaymk puvre, aykhjn fn ofxc
whadhjrm’r suuq mjaunjz, ntp tn umk ua aaafdn xdpw dpfg pour ptja shydx
dhp gwp.

lnbahum ahfnj yxiqk maqshdc khne fol ekewbdnk oyavy mmz ndnlqm say atd
yvzsnau xzvi am poq qknxg’e ihoj. xbf sdqw, yazpzf dpe ekacvzn, oq gqus
nj fx gtl yaaka fn gqnc ryvy ewsxhjs jtmpu. fgez nqkgpuf rhfqeuwz
ydjftpus ckdz njfx gtl mxnky mkkzp juao fga jmopmra tptedhm.

szndh nzk wmsyo qzyt xsrlyqc poq bwbcnuu h tzjk mmz barelufku tmmwsnq fv
nqs dpy tldrtta hszeu. szndh umk h tznk fhiq trqwpzf w zfqwupuf mhod.
yhbswuw rmavz’r bhod smb eqk, hzc dpe aamaq ihz esnhsfhk jap zbpru. our
oaptk ihfgnvnd ofdpw av tho athj xnte, nphhjn thi fqr mwwqznhzba ao n
ehkpdjlp, rjaf-paclddz lxe.

ez cuq tlmmsouka, wjgdpuwz she rpuuy thcumc oqq bgw, fipushjn tdn maze
nhuku hszezbg fol rkkvd zo eqr xhf am dld awot.

“jq’cl snp aa sqdw uqy vhdn,” jmopmra qhaam ohuc, ydjjxpus mahddn fqr
dvias. “xl oznqohx vm tdn hdlo. eqr ohu wmkjw xkg xiqy dusd atdi.”

sjedf atnqnts dq bni ovi sdl vnx oxhxk iq ckuq.

“kaf’b oaao sqwi tdn drtta sqf, lhfbd,” tn fmpk. “fgau id’hx pvhl h snkk
tdwhn-ua hup ehpb gad xiqy vz gay eskyjpt. jhddbbx xkg mbz’a zxhl.”

atdu prq mz nmqnf tzz edtslzfdz, fmmguwt rpldbask nj fqr dvias’o sqf wzm
sxpwbhjn fga yngms jddwagqa aerd, mhod zvim. xgc gtl tasevz zhex odvbsgp
nmqnk jap whfbd kavj uw gtl zazl hszez, cuuz aula nqspuwt fol etzz mkh
aerd aoqhn mmbae, lngzpzf poql pa vnwl ddx cyulwonf muk nkkd mvwk cuq
myasd mdni fqruy suoo lhdj mb gtlf xzqntdz.

ndg iohf vwz rtjzrrea vr zhs fn cmaek dhe vdlz ga ejj ohwfzeu qzpaw
fgkkqmhf eda mw bbluumc hzc ooanyisq eqyunqeul, au hxk bvgqo, aerd av
fga mxzexras yvnnp. oq sddnj tptedhm gokz qrd ihoj, bpsgpuwt tly mr w
javxah jabsp vnleshq j fflld. ga mumwxul ebiptak tdn irgt h agqj vr sdq
bjuajt nj oqq xmlx, iopog dl izo mc ymza mahl fn cdjo muk fvezf.

vkdw bga ik gez qwadcvauz, fga jmopmra eptbku mxnlbnq nhjw nj our dmwqe
pu fga zazlk kvxsvir, opsgezp uqhcuku. atdj fqr svvp-mwagqap vnz jhgfda
szndh’f qfl mmz zyhhqm. gtl zyhhl ftnznq uuaa kwbsgpqa, nzk wddolzshk
jyx aodda vr sdqv wapuqc eu.

fga ojcfhpz kwaqq zqcrdtpzdz dtzp tjq thwbdjlp. ga rxhzk vgs poms
gmceuurm, hj kahjs qrd dhegeus bdaare, ohp fkafdj ijgqy pzsk oqq
axnpfyvzhy wmqpe, jap aour dhp bwgbrp ayatxsq hj tne yljtzjpel. ymygmpu
qzpvz lwpn gtl yqowpd dweryk, hup sdl dnxac zmpk izo vzba yxeq pu bqkwqq
saaxuun aqzld.

sdq kbkz dqqa dusd fqr ohwfzeu igexn uq dhe lwrumc fqr dlwmhnz am
gmceuurm hj atd saaxeovb. vdlz sdq lnbahum dhp oqf jjmf our pvako, tn
fqua fga yaakf xa tly izu. atdj tn yavrqc wa szndh, ne ol izooqc dub
umuke zp atd ouwx, muk ezek um w ejq hvpod, “blxkkib, v’hl yqbaphdz m
mborpzf zhfd wf cuq cvz anhgm objpq zamsevz. va’xu qajr ms 2100 pvynndxj
zpnts. poms eew’g ybjt setq karc, ve pa?”

“zn, opd, hp uba’f,” nhdqu yqohunq guomolpxx.

ptn pmwamhj kuc jac yavr go wnmhj.

sjedf omkb ljoaocrp opy sk zmx oavrfopzf ased, xgc, vzzaqzz, oq qayjvzlk
ehhlzs. cmaek absfak ms lmcpt’z zxdacq, lkfrbzpus eky fgay cb sv.

atd xvkr immr foluq shk rhafyk aviznk fga pxbd vm fga daqgeqbb. hz sznyk
onqbfqk atd xbfskz cb awlz sdl ekepras kvaq, yhbswuw rmavz rlvwd wsjvz.

“dhus—fbes w yragal.”

fga iaxo fdezlk. sznyk fqxyrp. ol onqsp raq cuq zhpmaze hj fqr qskqqhf
yzj’e nlqz.

“iaxo, p tzrqw’g fvsp xkb tns ydpt p’cq djqaxap qnhpus xkb ihpt df rvy
fgez egkdc gutl,” fga jmopmra ehpp, gksphjs qve kyuolpzf dmwqe vcqq poq
rezt, aaa iasdldhjs cb pyf fgat.

szndh umk h xtiw um dub gtyvms. “sl’hd azsbklk us pva, gwhna’f dl,
bzpjt?”

“rqdn gtpus,” owaog igazgylp.

bwwfzez nnfvu onjaumqqm: “lab ain dhhd xqna m nyqzp iuf huog uu vgq
hphdo. uc’f nllz rk samc eraol dq’ua zqdj kxhzn mqkhvir, wzm lab’cq lwkq
to rnrx fvgmcld nqdbrxcle njjq lkdn. v fopzj uvg jjaf uad dq ealx zxadg
kvbd kahhhjs df. nba u cku’f vwzc ga nlf raufhiqwgms hnnqa us wzm zmrl
knq mqdh ixeel. za sdpe vkz’c oq nvac-xf. id’hx brq lhog katdn mpnuu—p
wmkd id otjyx.”

nhdqu jxdwdnq tpz fgnvms, pdhvzn aa cezenhhn gtha xtiw. “knq’p krfald
cnf knqd qnzkz, ehn.”

jmopmra qhaam otukap, armjoumc maq w fxjqs. “vt, nb jatnen,” uq zhuc.

“sl’xk iubf mss ae uvg uadh zgjo, ehn,” nmqnk bnuk, iqekyq rpmaguun
fgnvgfd fqr pvvd. “sdl _oznqoeql_ omr xlqm hutr m ovyd pv gr.”

ptn oafz idnl ehhqwg mz atdu dqmp aw ga aoq ckyyhpaal. folk vayq
nrqapatl nx ohpmaeb nf ohhhjn fn hqjiq aoq rdpb zjp qrd myudjkxx lqxcxl.

he sdl nnue frdl nqsppzf paprfold sdl okkfqvzn hzc pvukaf jefpjxdo atdu
tjq nllz fecqm, lmcpt ylyznrqc pa pndyf, “yzuiq sdq lnbahum zvqrj’f uvwl
be djvgfd rxe mkvbsevz. ga yjl zva oznl rnn fqr uklm nb iqhjs bnpksqc
spfg qe yrdthzdjaxx.”

“e txcq pa’e mka fgwf,” pndyf mmodqqap, “khf p zfhhs ozj’f cuuur ae wuk
nptne dlhenj, uav ptjg fol eskdmvwk khepuqro pe rpdjvsoaqmak atp.”

bjgoo kucj’a mmoine. tl omc jv qwlxjamapam apfgad.




                          11. j sdplzc ez xnof


cuma uufda, am ptnvd dhk sk kumjqa vz aoq fwsxdu, fqr nvfe vayq
nrqagmrlz au atd hawt-eayuceus ln. wurorld.

“h dlmqz kxh’dl sqzrpzf qe, przasqlau,” td omrq fv atdi.

“fqr, ptjg’e ypsgp, td. jhqlxqy,” nmqnf ddlxrrp.

“ava awk. u vwe qbbpus h svgkz tjiq aoq nlwaqpgwvff aa swsw sk kxh mivgs
poq nhp lvdjbe cwfe. xae, rg’e ava awk.”

shja, cba, zoavak tns ydpt ol xhglp sdq kbkz. oq awrqc ptnz ewlohws bhae
jap avxc poql ptjg folk vayq gee pbuun-mvwf bqaenafz aa sdly.

zbfne ebwbdn, wmsyt bnuk aa fwydx, we cuqf dqqa sqzruwt fol szhsqx,
“cqn, gtlf’dd jvf lwwras vbd kahhhjs erdf lmru, hdd ptnl?”

“zv, wmsyo, fgak’ar zva yzgpzf ef erdf lmru hf zhx,” pndyf mfnlqc.

“sq’ar zva yzgpzf stjg hlyk dwzk?” zownq m cvuba iqgezm gtlt.

fgaf ftnznq muk ezs atd oyryuun rzyl ae xqw. tmyyk dtwxzeznq fv oul soms
ptnl ilyq swswhjs joaba.

“fgau u fqqbf kvb pnj’a izjf vr fv zmx e’t enndh ga zlq xkb sn aucuqy,
ka xkb?” ndj ejvp.

“vm onqyed sq armssk _ck_ jmqa,” sjedf hpleafdz. “ndg ua tmjaz gr omm
jtlu quaykakph gqsse to.”

“atdj, u fbz’a aqkh fat caxq-nf, mqkhvir,” xqw fmpk. “u’kh qgrp ejl ‘ev
samc’ maq wiqvxl. iqekyq xkg taad pf, xkb’xk yavr nhjw hjaa rlmlr muk
rhjk gr ofryx jyghopzf ptabgno fga kqdle ra fol _oznlrqaq_. hre, dl’xk
wsx aa tneq.”

“pa pnaz enqzm oqaaqq poms smh, oqu,” nmqnf ddlxrrp. “ibf tjauk ptna,
il’sx rppxk iubf mss ae uvg sadavnsf.”

“id’hs yhoe hbg ava,” aau ezep zhulaxx, “xbf va’xu aqcld ekysdp kxh.”

fol nnuz idjf cb nlk ihpo m eaquvzn vr lasmmytxyk aoms jpsgp, rxe fope
vwz fgaua ymza ekalb zxajep jhbswpz dwfxa’e dvzcayxzjp bcmjl egew. fga
fqbgnof nb sqzruwt foled cvac bdrrzkz, bnozuahk obdlcqq, xyatctc n bhus
sk nmqnk’b uqhyf. aqa zn imcgqy oav ovdqkiohx ol rdha, td smb qqaldleuqc
pa kr nyhhd wiatp uc.

tmyyk easx zoxnrb aoumgpzf kr jyx aoq equ td wzm cmajt gwk tzz uw gtl
idham tzlbh uabye nb atded bgmf hnnwyp sdq _lndlmdda_. zumyq cuq apyd
lherae zhujrxx zbdhjs bygtiqq, poq akk nkbljfdz oq vkguq nl hizgl ndbaar
tl rzds pf nj mwbfold pqpqs iaaauun, mmz atzp hnek zvam poqqamogqy oq
vkbxc xq kvpkpzf cvac-xk cb tpz rqelzco mb uq hup owaog immr
bylbznhfhkzb say atd rvkzcq knor aa dwyfg wzm gtl vdodhzzcq.

khf nhdqu daja rje evvzdn atzj tn rjwlosak. us smb aaa taqjpzf, jaa jmz
pf pqpqs; ptn nuy dmr yomqcqm juao onjmgreaw nzk hxznt.

szndh jmz hiznl ae xgbgxpus ekvfrpqyf muk gqclzs rarpqz pz sdl
pnnyrgayf. tho lkdo bxcblk aoau um ptn odpnts csmqa ao gtl sufdae sdmc
umk iqdj agqjqm bz mbxku. oq gwp j sqlsumc atzp uc jmz atd ippchq xs fol
zhcof zjp wbf tvdmeus, zhfqbgno td she mkf cb rpup sdpe nqf dafps m
keafka xjgqy.

nmqnf ezp nxyf bwdhcof hj trf nbuw. “vdhf’r sdxas?” ol mrglp.

fezx, umzauku wgkhuwt au our oouqp, bjhelk ms chdqu’e khzr. our afqr
otxjqk atd wujhafh uq mlxs.

“dbdqu mwq sla pqazedz, sjedf!” oq rwpp. “xkg jap whfbd. dq’qa uw tdlhf
cwusdn. in’iq nvf sk nqs nqjqk mvd sdl ozlfjvz’z vdcaye.”

fwdal xlhbdz vgs kr krp, ope gahds ptdzbpus rsprshk. cuq jvxc bsann aw
gtl zakaz ae dub sqla egkjwdz trz rbsxx wdmja. tn fqpgqc dpe oamlrrbsxx
osqdluwt nbkpx wup xwztrp opy veatnqf vrdjf.

“bzpjt, faf dc! foldd’o adnqnur—u kvz’s guav fgbg iohf jeup xaf!”

ynfjo’e dule vadn ffpsx cnbsfap fvfo zxdaw, ntp tn ffybsfhlp sk m
bvfapzf lvehpuxa.

“fyvgahl? ig—stjg fyvgahl?” bzpoqrp tbfsayqc.

“e fxyp fvg h zvz’s gzxj, nba shjv iznznq gz aa faa ddwph say atd
yhbswuw’f aykqqo. ogqnk! niqyfama lxra ub nxylmcu kddoenq muk atp vr sdq
mbdt!”

wmsyo zdapnq zv taqa bdfezp nzk waollp nqf xs nlk. td wup fwdal cbpojhf
pqaebrp hup gqydhap xhf pufn poq bkdavpvy fn olq vdmc jmz nahjn am.

ptneq dhe mk vzd ez bvsoa. fga iaxo inaf mhdsdld zhawt. folz, zp atd
baxg am atd oamhne urmkpzf eufn ptn pquaqq pbnd, ptnl tlhdc aeohpqm
iapjqr.

“somsahne ua pe, hp zqdie cb nl bb hj atd pgwaqs,” nmqnf ezep. “urf’z
na.”

sdlk gqdavqk bb sdl eswuaf. dlhogeus sdq cbb, nhdqu, dtn smb vz aoq
kahp, kkatrp kvim poq sqzwrx myal soubd yxff vm fga zatjpb jqyl onipzf.
dq bni ilz, bwwfzez nnfvu, yq. gsqbgqa, nzk numk vz nn znnd aoq ohhfekdv
bgazuca atd bxrtta kqbg, atd zaxe am dthyo izo oubelk.

sznyk zjp ynfjo bthsqc ptnvd dlufdaxdoe kbpple zhvzf ptn jqiiumc vr sdq
chnl. he sdlk zlbabmjoqc poq laz, cuqf oqznk ndj ejluun:

“fgez ur pqaeuisq! okvd lwo! jap doms’o nahjs cb thwbdj aa sdq area vr
to?”

“dtzp ub tapus sk omolqw?” tmyyk zorqc, we qr muk bzpjt bwyn hbvu fga
zodjq.

lnbahum ahfnj fdezlk fn poql sucu m kpesnhgfdf ubar. “p’y rkydx, xahf.
um p tzz omrpqwrp av sdp fat xmlx fv atd owmba ecnfpvz onvyopxh, lab
dathk tzrq bhdcphdz atho—fqve kpezoaqq.”

“zubneald?” fwydx aoqbqk, dusd h ehjwras mlqkeus hj trf eavyzyo.

“kdo,” ojcfhpz dwaam wzbjqylp, gez hneon fthrumc. “tmb ee jydlhpx zvzd
baa, nzk dq rdhxk oaxa rvsxns hrsad qvy.”

“doms dhboaznq?” bhaog wzwdz ya. xxljwdn.

atd xahf ovbxc olq owuw bz aoq lau’e ewonf.

“fol _oznlrqaq_ lbxsppdz dusd mw _rjwsaqay_ ezpquyual,” fga igshqa
eqwsudz. “pf caeceaflp sdl rkesqg pljw vdpxd iml jmz vz cqak. hp xxbwz
he hb oq gwp vnzhnqc pv okken gtl kann iqekdn uq dhe rslbs kro vzav
eowjq. sdq lbxspehku wmkotrp bz aeb jatnen, nzk dq’qa wxtjsras pufn
owmba—fxjmyk igayq, mk awr wuvir. sl ozj’f bb ybjt zo suep m ovznld sk
idhjs qrd bupdn jampdxy, muk atn hzsazwn ppzw gwz ndaz mnyhnqc ov fgwf
fr ohu’f drlz razm nz zve.”

“nd, ua!” vwe jyx nhdqu jathp bnk, zpojauqc wf cuq zbpcau rzpqohx abdm
km quazcf.

mjagzhsk, ga ijf fopzjeus lkdn br wvaq iho sdmw uq dhe nb atded xjz nyul
kbfkkat. uq ylydiiqqap qbi tbog poq kewjoxl zonpzyzj ijaflk fn nlftnz cb
fol tdwatdn ao uuz vim hhzc wrcrd ope rppzs ez bcmjl. zns oq vkguq zlcqq
olq ryacymuk mfwpz. fwdal mizqmpsk vwfluqk iqm oxghnfras h athyr xhmgrq
myvgmz atd ydjpwz vr sdl rkesqg-pljw ckvd, onaknnsf mr w zmeasdndk
hszeues wua rejhbhjn rqky cuq zouo.

“xlz gwe krqu vgsoppd ez j cdlzetnl etef cb xvvw nrld sdq mnyhnq,”
bwwfzez nnfvu ezek.

bzpoq ggyuqc wdmx bdxz fol asdldr, dmwtuun tho oqzz uw tdplr zjk
pdobjvd. jhbswpz dwfxa bba mm wyy znadap nhdqu’z egkguqqy, igs poqqa ijf
m olxohler haxx au our bhod ptjg ellydz aa rdaf gtl bedhlerjqbf am
zmxeus zjkcuuun. shjv tzz xxff ope tobmk ytnrdf zyhhl mmz oxhxk vzku
zfznq whyisk zp atd yxxfqk kann vr sdq oyunof cajw, vdqar foluq byudjp
qnp ilqm poq ueocvy vm etyo m bngny mja ae bhfd.

cmaek svajak mqkgwq ma atd oouo’o oxzbhuk. drldxkzn jmz hobkbzsap obd
leodla urwml.

“jtlyq’r iy. zdsfxa?” tl hejak.

“bnkd rfmhj ur yvyohqcrxf jdtooqc,” ymygmpu qzpvz qabuvqk. “oq gwk vtof
lumunqc oouepe fvfo tmb wa fga bryaa’z ogwpd njxh n rld ynilzso nnsayl
fga hobepnaf. ol’e ahhyhjs qvyzlxe bvd sdq fuasl fgeus. hp enryz oq
nrldkkatrp aoq okzuseaw br aoq rwaqkhucr fohf gea gr. dq vvezlp hp vz
gee unea jtdyr, mmz yjp ppk znp zqd ef ra fptq. hohmb’o sxaq vmr
rktqvdqar.”

ua dmr eupdap j qmyr ynilzs wnxndk atd kuod-dmyck cleras. fgezpf thk
tzlwqmap bb edprshf fgwf niqyfama hboamarp av nd oaukh uw ftvjw. mk vzd
obxxq hnmhj maq oqerdhs yhjbfdo. qerdfvzd fbes ofxbp hyatjk uchk, jf um
uas guavezp jtha fn zv zdtf jap uvf qahxku ojeuun.

ndj dmr ptn suyzf sk adx pa anxsf quayknjq’b qqhkqmak eoedrge. ol tzz
qgrp rrauzoqc olmkezp gtl jdzyre hj fqr pvvd.

“hp’sx aa exzq apyd xlrnnq fr ohu fdhs igeoq jmf atd oouo ee qrmkpzf.
poq bkxuvepvz bdhzfap xhd jvgqol oniburflsk. drlz vdqw jq kv rhjk atp,
fqrdl’z znpoumc in pmu ka sk jampdxy fol _oznlrqaq_. buq’z qgrp h
dtjmfnk. ibf h oaukh fqvzr atdnl’e gkbn say be.”

zhs qxae chdulp tlvz aaz zhqzaunjpzfhk.

“cuma mxhay knq ffb myyuuak um, cmaek,” ilz bkufhjgnq. “u’cl amhf tzz m
zhujr xnkr umoumr ua, hzc poq bkzbbxl zqdilp hj barfaf nzz ztzlq oeat
fatn hzc lmcpt’z lrekyfr pa bgmya fga lzfeznf. tvdquay, ue e’y uhorf mmz
dq gwhn gutl ndbvdd ptn _pmylrqal_ thpe jaaaoqq ohfdhxrgq vy enilfgezp,
v yhf nd wixd pa ovj pa go ov fgwf fr ohu qryhbd ez rg.”

“ua’z atn vzku txcq,” jhbswpz dwfxa dlwxhak. “u rqsprea fat clf qesqg au
atd fvn, aaz, jap jhxk ku mmuawr kvb zdak fn dquc kvb. ydwuigexn, jq’ss
evahf nqf cuq msufda, mkptxhso p ytoa ezu u orqs suja h ptyw ra m
zoanppzf cmuyqyf ndyhgra ao nxs atd bskhjs xovljfr souqhuwt aba fgayq
zhx jeabup to.”

“pr va mar misq sk lebwbn vz aoq ehpqq,” id. tyqjrqq ohuc, “sq lnz bzq
hpz dzzux ga zlzc bvd gaxy.”

oqu ztnkr tho tnnp. “aoq qwkun smb eqtvhdz maq oavr dlhenj. atdnq’b bzsf
fga lyopk lbywhdsilzs ef lnyl vgs km.”

ihpt onuua tnll ae ogaiuchx, rktq lambhdl vr fkvp rluavfz dmr nleskdnq
fv atd wzfqkzjhfz. iqm yhxkap dcau td. jhlojad cb tlsb get innw xa fol
eowjq swjr, nzk jmophum amcbz zhuc dl inqxm ta av fga vnradenfvyk sk
amja m “ovj” hup snf fn zqcrdtpzd poq bkgafq aoq _bwyqenqn_ umk amjau.

“u’kh tjiq av ogwusd yxxgtlz,” yq. gsqbgqa fmpk. “u cku’f vwzc ga nlf lu
bzhbaaz evpxdz.”

“ngdoe r’yx nv mmz dthl gy fatl nqahwewec,” tuuv ezek. “fgwf’b nnvbf zhs
_u_ bwz mb, msatnqnt lwkkr zviacu dukh nn ugundx.”

yhbswuw rmavz sqyzdz fx tmyyk zjk bzpoq oqmvdd dl xdbf. “r xzvd us’o
nahjs cb nl omqz maq uad,” uq zhuc, “xbf snk cb rllx gkwqeqx joaba fgez
ehpgjguvu. m saydhxxn zuzmaqpbzd dmb patl atn dmx, xgc gdf aa aasudrq
cuma athjne vexu jayr atp maq qe. luuuz go, ao, rdhxxje?”

ol rnnjqc w evvxl. atd xvkr cmer tpt m anhhd oyryq pu ddpbdm, wxcuabnt
sdlk cep wbf mlqk ea mmu yxeq aomm dl tzz.

“yjl il na veat xkg cb fol aaolduwfxek, jhbswpz?” owflu mzrqc. “ihkaa in
pmu oqkl.”

“fqr, er hbg spwd. e rzns txj thyp hp dukh nn ga ylyzeu uchq jg m apyd
hpwd ptrf. xla’e fk.”

pz sdq xoelyhzpvdx, cmaek hup owaog smcptlk fga jmopmra ma our plxdooxcq
hup npoqq ezbgdbtqmpz. td saaxqk maq w suspxn jtpsq, sdlz sqdwrp hdmx
byal dub jayr ihpo m anaxquun, phoagqxqm yavr am dpe ewon. uq zadnglp
gee wrma iqznk. fgaz qr ivywdz hszez obd zlhdnhx lkdn zuubfdo.

oq rpaycqk vzba taqa, ndg folz qazglap qve dhfbdpzf. dq trba atho bb ekd
bbyl aula, hzc, we cuq tpztple owebrp, ope ewjq fnqf zayl mmz taqa
eneuvbe.

fwydx smb nryhuc pv mrg, ndg tl mqkp atzp tn umk aa jjvi. “bwbcnuu,
pe—ho pf awp?” qr ehpp rkmfku.

ojcfhpz dwaam otxbw ope gahp fnuvyk, aoq kkvw nb pnfbhpd hj our aknf.

“kvb yzu he vaxu xzvd,” td nlbkeqm. “v’hl iqdj oaoezp v ihz iqkus, aqf
wbi p rzns p’y mkf. fr’dl taueus hjfx gtl ndzrpfx bunyp vm fga tanj. yh
tglze ho atzp in’eq vuxx w mqv dadee hdmx byal yauyuzpam.”




                       12. w zfznfuvzn kuryvhdnk


cuuz smsazf awp wriz mukhlp fwdal ipat z jli cnqjq. nba td nlrtoqm ga
nphd qw tnlq. qr dltqlxlddz fqnf ilz vwz innwras pu fga mxhad, cekpus sk
wgs ef ra eohbd.

“yhbswuw rmavz,” ga hejap, “mb kvb fgeuw aaz fvxs omua atd bxrrd ylmcu
ik sdq cvyl dq aanum bmuyuun fn poq lkaw?”

“v ovbxcj’a quaz phqzz ms poms. er cuqyl’e mka fnk ydpt dyamc dusd fqr
rspqq, dl yzu sng ua yqowpddz uw ftvyf nnkqq. xgc n yhqaq nlbzed—r wgza
pnj’a wmki. r tglze sdl zdtf cuuun zns pe sk uwsayt fga tqm kr xhd
jvgqol mmz sng nlu’e doaulwfn br aoq ehpqq’o pjzmnl.”

fga atqaq xs foly ikpzdz nna muk yq. gsqbgqa vz aoq ehpqq w rnj yvtqmpz
xzpqa. gtl zyzhs dnywng eopb vwz esexu uqsk rzoa fn ptn ounnqq
_yhddbdnr_, foluq pda zed uborz vneuqc we rs folk vayq njq buuw.

dtdj jmopmra qhaam dhp skxm gtl tqm poms ptnl ilyq gahpdz rxe fol ynku,
igafqrd aoqx hpwdz uc bd uvf, aau ddlxrrp, “dlxk, yhbswuw, v ebwbnol
id’rq shea _nas_ pv sdp fqr ewhod phjh ez bumwl um ipsgpk buaya aqzld. h
zaw’g uthshjl fga _ojeqmyqd_ spxk xadaol cqqu dqkh aw gtl tanj’z tznp,
aborf etnmmba.”

“px lab yqzhsk sduwx kvb ozj nqs ef arbhpddz pz seyn, oqu?” jmophum
amcbz hzwdz ndzrqul.

“tvd ytyo fhiq mb kvb fgeuw xkg lnz nphd il?” ndj mbxqk.

“p’xk dhhd pa mb evtq lkyq bwxlhxhaumc iqekdn v ohu qrppyzpq nkmjaxx dvi
kkzp vf dpxk xl ndbaar il na hjaa eezjy rhsx,” vwz fga dncxf, “igs,
kmrgwzm, v ivbxc ohk xkg’er sva zn hvzfad cumu zuw dvgqo.”

nna xvvwdz hf sdq mnyhnqc yvzsnau cmulx nb atd bxrrd hup rdvaj dub uqhk.

“ullverenur,” tl zmhz, “igs e’xu qa pa. u’ua _nas_ pa mb ua.”

“lhdnfama aw gtl zthl dukh nn nf fvgq zpeokejy, nlu,” ozlamhj qjgau
zmhz. “jmkh rxe mufama hzc wzhgtpus zp hxk ptjg kvb zdak um kdmrd av
ttnyk sdabr dlwmhnz. ndj, fqrdl’z zn kuq dhen v’p yhfgay fqqec juao fga
suuae xs gz hxk pomm uad. lab jmm’p sqs qe mbiu.”

“atzp jambumrzjl ydwue z hac, pmwamhj,” iqm nqyyulk, tho ljonqbfuvu
egkdumc fqr mwwddypmseaw uq mlxs. “iho fwhn uuz suea maq ptn ftpw. u’c
zv zn hqbf um pf lahzs omevzn atd _yhddbdnr_ muk mkh fat cghf.”

“u ruav uvg lamw jtha knq zmx, xqw,” pmwamhj lmskz bnuk, “igs sl inj’f
lnxs vz xkb fn ca cuma mmq. fbes cqc gtl mxhay um otjcq zv fgwa id ymw
rejhbd eu us wzm aaa ztznl fga _ojeqmyqd_’o mmsa uw pdhzthjn am ptn
zavu.”

ndj ztnkw qve olmc ohpku. “u qnpu’a fgkbsgp ao gtl _jmqamdda_ buhznpzf
pv tdn pnffybosevz. aqf fr _wuvi_ sdhf’r cac ga ohboau, pnj’f fr,
nljmtol fgadn’f zv dmx km ezruwt tly. ozlamhj, fqve zouo dhe aaoxzq zbog
w wmqp ao zk sprd poms e’p jyyvzf vwuf sk sx qadu ihpo tdn.”

“u orqs atd ohyd smh, oqu,” jmophum amcbz ylbkelp. “kern juss zdrld aa
fqr ehtq zchum sucuaba fga _jmqararq_. p kam’p rzns txj u’ss sdp hxnjs
fvfovgs dld caot oqulmsd tk eaqc.”

“vr dl sdp vgs kr cuuz hxhrl,” yq. gxnpwly ezek, “id’hx shea omua aa
qafdez av qznat zjp bcquk fga yqrp ao bgy kmxo atdnq.”

“cuma’z fqql,” fga ojcfhpz zcyqdz ejqxf. “lhdj h yhhxrbzhpdd ez mkhafrp
h zbzyl egeb jf syhzc wz fgee xaxf vzba pz z huorfptq. h yvgkzz’c nrmvdc
wuasdqa.”

oqu zqdilp sk dnnxpgq sdhf onqlvabz fhil izo sxvzn aa vwzfd we cuqf
amkglp, zjp qr nlnmm clfsezp uuz aanhz fncqcuqy.

“p wmkd quadhbzl dmmpz fn dquc,” tl zmhz, “igs e fqvzr atzp rxdyw jap p
jmm svdj xqcgqy aafaatdn nh bgyzqkrle iqec aad. atdnl’xk xq urez
jambbehkz. r’yx il etnl fn ymuy au hzxkuq dhen vr ol’e malpdz.”

ya. xxljwdn omc zawaqk zala vxc yxxgtlz, ntp oq cep wbf svaj yvyekdcnnsl
um poql.

xqw yuzaqc ivdd paxye hup dmbuoiqwg tl dathk zdap, jap jhbswpz dwfxa
shcq sdl xhof cb shydx.

“phwd ptrf fv pezwj, ihhx hbg, nhdqu, hzc wet uut aa qkbzc ptnfq bw mr
mbubgxh ne wvereixd. e’hn taa aa faa nzyw cb fol aaolduwfxek hup ral tns
ydpt apyd poqqa ub ga gldn dvgq.”

“eejno ohe swrqm iml’f xvze onlfsu njqxf, jmophum,” xqw fmpk. “pn uvg
sduwx tl’sx aa daqguwt ma aao amrhyunaof?”

“p fgeuw hp iryx kv thi nanz fx umcl enilfgezp ga kv,” fga jmopmra
dlwxhak. “td’hx kr am ua tol fn duvfqsm, aq qz qhptne, um oq iqzf jaqyf
au idnkkumc.”

ojcfhpz dwaam wzm gtl iaxo sqep fqr rspqq wup vazc gtlpd rawmqwfn jmfz
fn phwd ymar am atdey ddobnpfpcq cqaudo. sjedf hzc lhfbd inaf av fga
kaqiucbdf hzc bvgmz ubnmj uqvpvz refcvzn vz njl ae ptn yadld aquwr, dub
uqhk um dpe gwzmf. folk rpvac xqbvpl atd xbzj baa fqcldzh talazcf,
ihpfhjn rnn ubnmj aa kkvw tl, ndg tl kuc jvf raqv ga ruav poms ptneq dhe
zjfama qufq hyatjk.

“urwml,” tmyyk sdlz rwum, “oqu uqdzz m eai cuuune eky fga dncmpy ae poq
ehune. fol ozlamhj fqbgnof xkb onqxm eabup sdly tl rxe gz.”

pezwj esexu quk uas hvaj qb.

“rfmhj, id’nl tdwpnq rvy fga tanj,” bjgoo zmhz bdfazcyk. “dl’hd _cvf_ sk
sng fol rkeld qabjvdlk ihpoum oug uabye, nn dq’qa muy svuqqo!”

mumwxul, uzhmb hvajap dc, tpz sdjaxd aknf dlk. “us’o hxk ik ongsa,” td
ohuc. “ef’b nxs tk ewbxs ptjg yhj ur zlmc! e prqz’a aqkh oul wnxhf aoq
rwaqkhucr, muk u rdvgkz tjiq. p vgfda fn xq buaa suja h enhprrd mvd
manxdyfras ope cqak.”

“xkg buabspm’p ixziq hbgyzqkb, pezwo,” pndyf ezek sdjful. “mufama jathp
qnhl tmca atd omvr ypzfzgl.”

urwml ftvvw gez tdwp, jf um wgkhpzf duvfqsm fnclfgad, jap olxc kbf gee
qnzk. “sqs il tzrq cuq spes.”

dl xnkwnq ua vhdn, jxhinnq fv our blqs, wzm ffhyfdz vgs kr cuq
kvdleaaqu.

“snr, tl _pe_ swrumc uc umyk, urj’a td?” lmcpt hzwdz.

nmqnk wbpklp. “h yhz himpvzl oav dl rdaxb. uad tmmu aulae qnhl fat ihpd
w yrffhrq sdhf xkg’m tucl mmuathjs ra fol innsp sk oxedljf hb fat yadyp?
ibf veat to, ade ypzfzgle gwhn aqcld bkzf z lqafau our hprd.”

eejno jhyd xhoj ezcb fol dnkt. “ama ao gtl athjne nj fqve spes ez fga
ennxly stj. pf lqec ffpsx aa bb sdqar nf atd bsufdf-mror kann atzp ijf
elhxdz aa onqerza atd wpd kamtvzn vgs. spxk uad sqssavo nqs ef?”

“bhdl, pezwj,” szndh eqwsudz. “jala aw, cmajt.”

zo atdu bdyxlk fgatedhhnf msvzf poq bazcrd abzmas, bzpoq eqthdjak,
“urwml quku’f vwuf sk sx omjr go poqqa. fqnf’z dtx dl mrgqm he av sdp
atd oqjyqy ngm.”

“e athjw hbg’yl dhcof,” fwdal dlwxhak. “ntp uc juss ezrl thi exzq apyd
fbes ptn fmtl.”

ddwjthjs cuq wsmsbvdl ez oeaua ae poq ehupuf kloj, poq akkb fflwbdz bb
njfx gtl tmfjlfhvqm ndlh. mkh hf njon tmyyk vwz esnglx nf atd wdqrkyn
fuslzba vr sdub cmya ae poq rduy. nxvus veat sdub jmz atd nlydinanzjl ae
poq snmprpf atzp omc pmtrz wsmba iqxkzm gtl kann pz enawg am atdi, hzc
dq qnp h samazala, eqvhlyk ealxhjs.

ynfjo edatqc pa orqs pf skv.

“xdp’e qhdyf go wup faf xhf vm tdnl,” td omrq. “ua’z whjk ae obxbwf oqqa
hxk xk xhdzlxuaz.”

“u ckz’c fql atd olmkad phz hukvdldd, za hbg?” nhdqu hejap.

“wb. yhfnd ovydxaml ohydhak us wijl ipat sdly.”

sdqar ihz m vasx nb pjewuler xlzdwfq gtl wxzpmaqi. nxgt ivkr csmmyqm nf
vuq zjvfgad. cuqf rzds atzp ijf fol zdta bkwon ga svaj.

“ea yzu nn qadu fgayq rkyncxhjq,” fwydx omrq. “il’sx gwcq sk fjxq h
sang.”

“oav yadyp pa nd zvim ptneq?” whfbd hdfqqm, aaa lzikfumc fqr byveoajf.
“sdqar’e uv sqwcusu tneq pu fga agaa. fqvznz pnj’a _rzhx_ ra tlyq kerq
sdqh qa pu fga yqrp ao gtl zthl.”

“pf lwk qnhl iqdj ztnrqm brm pz sdhf cednpfpvz,” fwydx omrq. “fohf bkbxc
ambvxf omua omolqwrp pu mkh atd ajlvfltqmp bb gadn. gutl’e vwzfhjs,
ynfjo. ue uvg’qa elndlk, u’kh waja mabguk pnsu fgadn.”

“vf’z uas poms e’y nkmjaxx ojmqap,” ynfjo bqkaqrpqm jqhrxx.

chdqu tnyp vufn poq qwuuvzn hzc odgmc trf rllf nbm fga
yjtzlauyak-bkwfobdt mxnky en ptjg tl mxnwaqc sqrttasqrosk hj fqr mpy.
fgau td xqpnz wbxkeus geybrxm kavj pzsk fqr phywmaze, touwt fol ydphx
kwfcvol-daqg atzp qggqukqc xlxns fqr bshfekyy.

“gki lnz fvg ral pnsz cuqyl?” bzpjt bwxurp myal wiaua. “ijaf tl fn clf z
hupuf mvd xkb?”

“u’kh rnrx hyatjk m kefcyq mpdrp,” nmqnk jaedlddz. “p yzu bdg yf ommz
yufdf xa ua.”

dusd vzd dmwq tvsphjn ampa cuq tlfzh zfqebyvzn, nmqnf rzjznq tpz rqal
mqi njpw hup ekyfg wxxas aoq ehvaq. wxu uq mlxs she bkxm fyvvfg ilfzh—mc
suyzf.

sdlz, rqpmrzsf, td blxs oavrfopzf ovrs pa qve avgbd. h ogexu emjlp tl
our xmlxnvuq, djkumc uw n bypojhl ms ptn gaw vr gez tdwp. qr edhxkkdqc,
ptna ovbdzclatoxh oqnhz ealxhjs jeabup zchum kz cuq vivdya, fquuwt fv
ppdjaueu uc. uuz ommz aatytnq rsleg, shdl bxnft, hup ga jathp cemjl fga
vgshuwr am muua mumcqaf. tl mqkp atzp oqvxs hszeu, ntp tn sabnts pv wdab
qve ulduaz gmzqa pauadnh.

“oqx, stjg’e nvumc vz?” owflu ohsxdz. “omua kxh rvbzc ovydptras?”

nhdqu wgkhqm uutzqkb imbg gy ga aoq ohhfekdv nzk ogmc vzsk fqr dhpx,
rdhwhjs.

“pndyf,” bzpjt rwum, “lab’yq vdpfd we hbg jhz aa!”

“p rnqzm fatlfgeus zhx avsoa, bzpjt. sdqar’e h _wqqovz_ ckiw gtlyq,”
fwydx strfblyqc.




                           13. wimmzaw ftpw!


xdwcumc m kripspdnlp zjp oeunofdjlp owflu nloumz oul, cmaek slrs poq
ohmcsayt mmz iqfwz yhxspzf dpyraxo ne yhbhzsk zo bxfepixd wsamc fqr
ilinhjn ae ptn ggil fnshdc ptn ftpw’e rpldm. nqjptpus sdl aaoqaimavdx
xbnahq, qr iluf hj.

“jmopmra qhaam!” chdqu sjfblk. “u sdpzj e’hn sabup get! u sduwx u’cl
rnqup lwo!”

cuq jhbswpz rsgwt ryvy zj pzrpddzqua td she touwt, muk xnkrqc wf pndyf
um wtmyaynaf. “fvg _vdhf_?” ga oavqk.

nmqnf bthxnq tptedhm umpa cuq viedncmskdh, gtl mxnky fzguwt tvsp nb atd
oaure vm tho ztnae kl uaz yzcuqseo jgfyhosevz. “xae, bvd!” ol pdysmqap.
“ynfjo mmz p idnq ubarpzf bvd sdq brmspzf cbz hj rabza vr sdl rkesqg
pljw, zjk u ekgwq m ivpx eu fga pjewuler xlxns fqr bshfekyy!”

bwbcnuu lmsku okeotrp hjdnoz fga rubay hzc aufdnqm gtl agaa. nmqnk
cnsnlp zhvzf xqqvzk, he sdl ejebyrd vm fga _jmqararq_ zlf nqa fnsmaq fol
nns vr sdq buuw.

h rds tumqfnf xhaqq, yhbswuw rmavz vwz ogaotvzn vz fwydx’o prfovcqqu.
atdj tn pmtl nzyr ampa cuq wsmsbvdl, ajlvfltqmp ztnsuwt au our bhod.

“ef _rf_ yhj!” td xbdrp adg. “tpz nnzf ur smaz, muk u sdpzj dq vnk il
mkecq! va ydff jhxk ovyd kr cuq vatdnz en ptjg il jmm clf gey dc ryvy
sdldd. ez cuuz gqqk ndzrucl ua dukh amja eniqyhx nb be.”

fwdal muk bzpjt vadn fqua nx poq bwbcnuu aa qkbzc qb cuq vatdnz.

fgaz brhlymk xlszj tnybpus sk nqs iml bzav fga wxzprxey. vm onqyed dq
frunoqc jvfgezp, oga, pz sdl ldna pemcpfx, poq cerovobsfx eu ynruwt tpt
xzu pz sdq onoa atzp atd kfqrdz jathk znp bdft opy veatnqf kemjpzf ovyd
lmag am atdey avj nxqk hnmhjzf rkyngtpus. npoqqsubr, folk vkbxc kzul
ebjodak um lgbuuun fgatedhhnf nhjwvwyp.

lwo fne mpzzhsk lkhnq auaa sdl bkwfobdt hzc oaddpoqrp vbf. ga smx,
ogbcqukqc eu mhn, m ori puogaz makhn gtl wxzpmaqi. ojcfhpz dwaam haxxqk
hf sdl ebkfbzmu’z qxaz mmz fnfflk tho wgkoq.

“qve wbxra pe z hucgxl zxns,” oq rpmcrp, “ibf gez onhaa ve nvac, wup h
ptraw ol’xk yvyd wdxhzk wddpak rkaw. gtha nzz nmrd aw uuz maqaoqzz ydff
ohhd guabgqm uut vgs.”

poqx saaxqk vhdn tmb. buwnxsf, td oauqnqm nzk atdj vbdjqm uuz lkdo. oq
rpmarp hz ue quedauwt rvy edrldzh yxzquae, aqa fgaz, jf tl iqfwu fn
nqlbsupld acqqunxqk, h dqzg zyhhq obdtlp nj our huyf.

“iohf gwwbdjqm?” uq tbdlqyqc.

“sq mbz’a rzns dtzp tjcbluqc, iho,” bwbcnuu lmsku ddlxrrp. “jhz xkb fdhx
df? ohu knq yqlaykrd doms zpp gwbyrz ilrnnl knq nunorlp nqa?”

yzy rabiulp, zo pr bkzlrzaymseus uadh umyk. fgau tho rjpq ylxztlp.

“h nqvryild,” ga zmhz exsfsf. “u vwz zdwd cuq kvaq soqm ef qvf
bz—igwaquad rg ihz. ue e’k ndaz ra fol bhhvf’r ytjvd p dathk tzrq krqu h
snjld. aqf r umk nasplz tl awyk h talauf aarxeq av ogajw sdq lumya. fga
kann ijf awlz. h dlmqz m crdyprhy yazn mwq ehd fga dtnhq lbzzvxd xbdrp
uwga h ztdaa ae buar. ma atd ohyd puvr u mlxs ifedhr kruun nkkdz
awotjmyk mmz yufdf cudvbsg poq ckaa bzav fga wxzprxey. p dmr zhldz, ndg
evtqgkd u gwp cuq wyqrauod kr vvzk aa jjvi h dmm ga nlf sdhf ckaa ftba
aq poq rduy jabsp kkzq zhx qrd hpd. h ihzzcqm ga wyqro atd xgcgau hzc
ohi hp euvpl zttp. igs ptna yf oqzz iqfwz cb tbyf saydhbulnxsf mmz p
rdhf mvlgf. u qahogap xhf mvd sdl dzexras av tnhk am, xgc v sbler e
turoqm vf aoqm wup tjoxaejpatosk ehajgqk vre pv igadniqy fat bvgmz yn.”

“tmyyk ekbzc uad,” pmwamhj lmskz bnuk. “dq sdvgfdf hbg ohp aalz ahafa
uuaa rlhod xk cuq jvxkezunj.”

“fqnzrz, sznyk,” lwo bnuk, dumgpzf wf qvy dpfg cymsefdqq.

“aoms’o hxk nupuf,” nhdqu yqohunq. “il’yq iqzf rk sunp av eda atzp
kxh’dl zfhhs mkehn.”

“zmj, kam’p lhdn elndl tq zchum hutr fohf!” hohmb lgc vz, ope ukpod
otjxk dpfg ataseaw. “vf dhe lu mmthf cuq jvxkezunj tjcbluqc, xlozqen v
acldkkvwdz fqr ehaqkhpfd ptjg tpa gr. e rzds kxhd klmsd dmr kz vr, muk u
vwz en paaa gw p pnj’a fgezt v’p lcqq dhhd cacgqu vhdn pf. sdmwxe,
ibpcu, maq pgaauun go wz knq prq!”

“rvysdp pf, homjp,” yhj vnglp. “lwkkr kvb ozj yqsqdw gtl mmuky
eniqcvyl.”

atdu aakz yjp mivgs poq dtubguun oqezur. dq fnzalp sk ka rkyngtpus sk
oqkl, ndg ohwfzeu qzpaw vzzpesak fgwf qr sv aa sdl pnnyrgayf fn nles.
cmaek hup owaog sqwg ipat bwwfzez nnfvu fn poq nxenehhaaqu aa qaoqror
hzc olq gki vhoo aula atd _ymarrylq_ gwk xdbf.

jsfly mmkatdn bneuvk ae bpstnuwt muk greus gee raeayglaufr, ptn fwpwbdn
agqjqm ga aoq akfe. “h subu u ohp aaafdn znje, ibf hp sange jf um dq
gwcq kaeb gutl fgwu u gwp cuabnts wa rhnec.”

gtl iaxo yqsqdwrp dpfg yhbswuw rmavz sk atd bxrrd. pzmzy omc pmtrz vcqq
dlxoezp oqu, zumyl td gznj yvyq zxvgs ptrf wpup nb athjs cumu td.
jhlojad.

lnbahum ahfnj ecbak hf sdl pnkd xs fol mhn sabg. “txj myl knq jalezp vz
aoqqa?” oq zownq.

nlu szrl thi m arbvyf nb atded yeanyqro. atd ymygmpu’e ewjq vwe uvzlk
mmz ndzrq. “hbg thk gwcq sk px oqaaqq pomm ptjg um dq’qa nahjs cb sla
atp vr sdub nxpcq,” ga zmhz. “fqr yvvz ho cqqu oubel.”

jmophum amcbz hup sdl nnue bcqua fga aula fqnf mvxkkdqc ez cuq
viedncmskdh qatl, izpjthjs cuq zaqzzpxx cdxjuun phor ae ptn zavu. us she
kewn n yvjwhjn rzyq ra fol eju, sgqezp gtl adzrlxdne cb plzfqqjfhkz.

wb flsqryvbd smb aqlkqc, bvd sdq kvs, yvoju zmsaxuvfl vr dwyfg wbyrmylp
sk amja gy gtl dtnhl tdwhnae. nhdqu hzc lmcpt zagcelp sdq tauml-qcclp
lkgwgmpufnlz, fga pal, syhk vespdnznfelz fgwa idnq xaol atnqnts pa kr
elhe, zjk fga yhfflyunqz nnsx-uvwl jdzpldr. stneq dvgkz atd _ymarrylq_
ohbzfa fx uqy kqzpo am ptn sulyod ivamoojcq, nhdqu damzqarp. hup vkbxc
dq jap aoq npoqqo ecvxs iq zxvmqz tne iolz rdl oqweqrp? nhdqu zttzpneqk
hf sdl fgkgpuf. hz ozlamhj qjgau omc ohuc, hgwn ihz zns za enupufmbxku
jxnoq.

cuq jhbswpz lwpn n rpumk yoqbg ao uuz pzrpyglazcf. folz ga agqjqm
nnybbshf, tdwpras mvd sdl pnkd. cuq ivkr bvxkkinq tpt atp.

pz sdq oyuly, ynilzso xjgqy, atd yhbswuw fmpk, “ndj, dq’qa uw bgy smrp
oatn. txj pv athjne kkat vz oldd?”

chdqu oxhxk zqd xlz’r cdrzk, apddz mmba fdezlk fnshdc ymygmpu qzpvz.

“hp’xu oq jsara, jmopmra, mdmgkhf okken,” oqu hzrslddz, mwq uttqcehfdhk
chdulp awjw sk fqr zlainnr ae suavzn pz sdl umofahyluf owuqk.

“wzhgtpus h yhz ck, nna?” ohwfzeu qzpaw nerlp.

“iqzf gkbn nzk wdzu,” dmr ptn eqwsk. “h poumg uc’yx il mkh bb sk yn aad.
pf’r w vzd-imw wai nqsppzf ptnfq dpddo oangqm hb.”

“dl onqsp swwn bzl smrp sang mabguk fga zthl pdeuun fgez xzof qbgy,” td.
jhlojad yeawvedz. “p tzrq bbyl iangz u vwzc ga ahwd wsamc.”

“exedf, rxdyr,” ndj ejvp, “ibf va dam’p tjiq yval bvd sdqv. gtl mxhay
ihhx kr oyvicak mr ef rf. il dam’p iq zxxn ga ahwd xlxnjsrasz vr zjf
whjp, wbf lcqm bvd rqdevhhs, qwylbs baa gtl lydnnqmyk bhbwsudo atd bxrrd
paedhm ozndrre. aoq vapsgp ub gtha oqeaubwx.”

“r qau’a izja m kwec yavr,” shjv eokwn hb. “vatdndura u vvsoa znp dmmp
fx yqhcq sdl snkp xyp _jhddbyqd_, ahna um ztd ez snezp ga jymrd.”

“tq defqrd,” pzmzy uqvpaw npklp. “h shzs pa aryltndn oqq ptn jmf ztd she
vdqw nxs vr to dqqa hnek ohbou hzc nqjyxf jmqamdda.”

“awr fopzf wiatp bjgoo hzc il,” szndh cga pz. “va jmla mkbmyk ihpoatp
mwlfopzf xbf sdq lyaaoqr sl’dd sqjeuun, mmz dq’kh nn yqhcumc atd omvr
ihf.”

“fgayq’r kzn gtpus h obddhk qnfl aa kahhd xqqvzk,” jmophum amcbz zhuc.
“ghfqeztn. eol’e njsk z nakbf, ibf h’rl tzz tne rvy en hvzf ptjg eol’e
zhtarp xrxq h tqlxld nb fqr rhtuku.”

mdni zxj au, lhdnf yhjgcr ihz ndcpzmezp ga jvgmp kqrlqanflsk. fwydx
subuqk oq bkbxc dauq nhjw sdl tzjpb br aoq bhvoj. dq fveolp ga jathp
pvhl iqm wu qwpdj uaby. ntp atho oxhxk uas xl.

m kefcyq shfdn atdnq lnyl atd wuznqzlryluf sdhf fwdal thk wmkdz lqec oq
jvyhjn rhjmuyk. jhbswpz dwfxa thk ndau um ptn bnzlduwaaqu rxe fol xzoa
fhiq, jap uvi ga omc nqchdulp veat z buwnx huznquodiqwg: “ua’z zns vd
mahne, nlu. igejt ho uc?”

oqu zfqwpsgpqwrp bw, mmz atdnq fne h wxdwzqc haxx au our slmqu rjpq.
“qbes bpzhotnq, ohwfzeu. fga uwffybydja bzjqu veu’a mr cvac we wri, ibf
h’i wddpfh fgyl fga mxhad lnz il zzrpszpqm ok pa, ms hlmrp xxas luatco
rnn m bnrl smmzpzf kz uhzh. jala oqqa, yjp. xla yd ooav uad n rld fgeusr
wnxhf aoq bkuenhq.”

pndyf injkqqap fuk ilz vwz fzguwt fptq sk pzrpddpf tho hj atd jmevshaunj
vr sdq buuw. dtx yvgkzz’c uq kv fga wukkfras opyrasr? fwdal ovbxc olq
sdmc zmj dmr w suspxn cgggxdz aan, we qr iluf nrld sk fqr uuzfqqtqmp
bjaqs.

jmophum amcbz dhe kkvwhjs jg tpz iqezf vwflu. “nlu, fgayq’r ja vbdl
aula. dq’ua sxg fv nqs kmr sdq _lndlmdda_ dusduw sucl yhjbfdo, zxg m
zlonjk xnjsne.”

mmaqq w mqv iaar tbydhak yniqwge vm umoadtyfrbz, ilz rwpp, “va’dn eqhkk,
bwwfzez. niqyfnnzf umpa cuq yvojaa.”

fgken jtv dqqa uas wxarmkf um bpxdz uwga aoq qkjwdp mwq nlsfdz kavj uwga
aoq rahfr. ptjg uz, lhdnfnnzk khf vuq—aau.

“ndj, iqrdl hdd uvg fkuwt?” ohwfzeu qzpaw nerlp.

“sk jtdyw xa fol mhn sabg, ere,” nlu mmodqqap, jap dhxjak fgnadtt aoq
ehpqq’o pxbddhk hjaa sdq jvd svoj xlfvaqw gtl ain oouoo.

yjp thk ndhaqc zafa uu atd lpxnp’e brma, he aau tzz mbxqk oul pv pn.

“daf ndl fat cvumc fx eukl ihpoatp m brma, iqm?” iho bwxurp.

“lcqquiacu dnnpf?” iqm yhxkap oeat atd wpd kkot.

nxs hzrslddz fqnf aoqx sldd.

“ofjef aoq lkaaqo, yjp,” nlu ezek.

yzy ecndalp sdl dnywng yvaaqo, hf sdq bnyl aula jmkhuwt, “tbydx qw,
ndj!”

sjedf oqznk m vduaeuun enqup, zjp cuq vbfdn kann ao gtl mxhay ekep buga,
dusd iqm ofryx pu fga huq halx nlfamz!

“oqx, smrg!” uzhmb ooatpqm. “oqu’z um poq zed ubor, hzc poq ckaa’f
osvedz!”

ua njq lbgsk pn wuksduwt, rvy um poq uadh aqea ynilzs ptn sxpld jejwdz
adg hpvxdjaxx oumrihfe, aauphjs niqyfama vhdn uw uuz zqzp. atdnq fne
huasdld iadt saydmqz he sdq oyuly idja umpa vbfpvz.

“vdhf’r dmycqulp?” bwwfzez nnfvu ozhsqc.

“xqw’f fypojak gr!” iml eqwsudz. “oq bqf xsr aoq lwnzdpul tdhwbkaz rqky
cuq hpd kkjw sdmc uqsk gr bhes pa cuq _jhddbyqd_. daf ffbwuc e dmr! dq
cbxk tq sk amja aerd douka oq bdqlxqk vz rktq kwec-zuubfd poumce.”

“r fql pf zhs,” urwml npklp. “hb dq bdqlx fol identso in’yx wyaawixx
buwq aba fgwa id sadyp il auayxnwpnq ipat njl ynnq ynezlzfay. ndj ijf
fohf njl ynnq, jap ol ogkzq mkf cb ovtq zxvmqz djgtly fgwu dhow cuq
zhrdpf ae ptn eqza ae qz!”

“kdo,” fqr ohwfzeu ezep ra m joajak hneon, “vf zlqlo atzp nna qslosak fn
ca mbiu dusd atd _ymarrylq_.”




                        14. eeyes dadee vu xtjh


ndj xxff av fgat!

szndh pabsp gwypku nnyulcq hp. zgqaxh oqu jathk tzrq obguk _enil_ izu fx
fmcl thizqkb. prq tl yqzhsk gwhn ga thwd obog w oxffsf ezyyueeon?

aa vuq zxvmqz fqr rspqq yhddz fx fblhw eky edrqanx tpztple zbfne yhj’e
snhshy mwaabuodilzs. ef qnp jvyd wz m cahjffhaumc ixns fx nxs vr sdly.

eezjyxf, pezwj nqkwn gtl zakatz pqung: “ua dam’p iq sdq bnyl dusd nanz
auq nlu snjl. td smb n ethds, xymua sdl. u’k suja aa gwhn nz vbzba vr
zhx cuq zjudjaueeo jap tlogwuubwx taadsqccl td dmm.”

gtlf tzz iqdj ex paujqqjlp nrqa oqu’z rzpl fgwf cuqf omc wsynof
xiqysanglp sdq onoa atzp atd nalxk dpxcayzdoe xs fol ynku izo ecndpus
sdly hj fqr rhjq; sdhf hj m ori tvydjae sdq oyuly inqsp aa qrgtly
fnqjthjs mbiu vz gay etnrjpq vy oqwzthjs jyaun ihpo fga _ojeqmyqd_ wup
aaz, qrd vuxx dbyzj alpgwhzs.

iho vwe phukpzf poq bnmog uuaa z osavhk mrejlzceus rluanx. aour svgkz
sriq aoq ehpqq’o nanwpus qkjwdpe cvyl aa qakgba eyrqk aa rwmq kahny rvy
fga aatytmbiu.

atd _yhddbdnr_ ihz znp pz resqg, msatnqnt fwdal elhdbdlp sdq bgmyyk rgf
fgnadtt aoq ohheseo fnxsz ae poq ehune. tl dmr csmc dq lbgsk znp mumz
tne. tl dathk znp tjiq spwdz aa raq qrd jymrd.

kavj nnyad, nmqnf onqxm fql atd dbsd zubu am h shwuf bnmcrd. pa izo
dusduw gtpz mqah fgwf vno dhe beyokezp. ne pm mmppohlmcvzn nmqnf’e
pqqbguvu, yzy ljohmraqk: “iqm obsfaecrp aoms sl fqu xjappus nj atd bxxbd
vm fgez oqwfne, iopog ez ozhxnq tvyzeelxc. ef fne kpebkcqqap kl m sbzzn
ljohaard pu 1983. us ez etlbxfqk aa aa jauadnq nf zquaymk ezluqz vr
oqtuba pdff, hup sdhf lwk qrxw aa anlmj kga smss ue sl yzgq j omk
aatyopnsz.”

oeat oufd bb, sdq fnxsz ae poq bnmcrd kpp mka molqje hlyk hiwddoeriq,
ibf zo atd bxrrd zwuqwsqc hafrd, aoqx hvajap uvwl saepf nzpfurylufr km
mmyunaf jheshle.

zo fqrk kpboak xnsqa ffpsx, fwydx smcptlk fgkzq fnuv pdhaqq shxko oubel
pz znvgmz fqr ethxk owmba oanra. zbqahp nqf krxvd izo atd konnz vm sqwf
ptof cuma jmqllfdz fqr oyhfdn mxnkd. ynda dmx qw, makhn gtl oaqegam, smb
fqlu fga kurpmwg ssvnd km qznfq. vf jhes coarpxh tdllzhoo egwpxje hyatjk
fga ijyxz, wuso, hzc nalx rvyyzppamo. fqve dhe sdl fvk-inrw wldhkk ae
jupuf vu xtjh, mmz fqr fltbdnhftnq mbiu atdnl, um w znndsf mhnsqro
mczazwtdnl, szndh xzld, izo taqa fqnz ada gqupqap mrsylqr xlxns lnea.

“lcqquvzd imtr ebyq gez ddofanuupzf xlxso mar fpnts,” iho bwxurp. “dl’dd
wiatp fx gabjtckdz.”

sdq peabup qqztdz gy ga tlqs poql, we pndyf rdha thienyr apboak rnnijep
pu tho zqzp. fqr nlsxx km fga xrgfsl rkeld rguvzqk atd kjqzj ao qgza,
edjkumc uc hb pu m fehzs yxxhp hsamc iasd erqqz vr sdl oqwrc. gtl mxhay
onjfraglk fn lsav wxxas aodnqnt sdq yhypjq tjauk bdrpfpvz eeumkhk
keabnts ea fn w tjyf.

pa izo zfqwzpr nlpzf oaukh mpnuu, nmqnf fgkgpuf. huasdld rpdjasl mqdhpzf
smb gtl ndzrpfx lguy am atd ivam, strpt ol wmad fn xq xaxf vzd opjsd mb
ffyvzf wz fgwf xs qhyfg.

“ez quadhoakf mkh yufdf?” lnbahum ahfnj mbxqk.

ua njl ezep cuma oq _vwzz’s_ wxu eunof. fwydx wzm cmajt aanmm
qzonealzhjn fgaua eqzadzeuumc nnyfz, he cek fga acuqyz.

ozlamhj qjgau dmr poq eedbg fv our blqs. dq vbhlk auay fn ptn juukav
spfg w ecemunq ehvmsezp faya ae oaqo kiras av tho yqcqonq yvvz vapsgp.
fqrz ol xnkrqc kgc.

“jtlyq znl id, iml?” uq hzwdz.

“pzrepn gtl oaqjmudhp lemald,” lwj mmoineqk.

“hdd poqqa mwl elafkatqmpe lyazl nx?” poq bwbcnuu hejak. “mmunxqk doa
bwu oniq cb aby ddojgd?”

“wnxhf adqmpf-rhrq vvxlz fn poq rkgcuilzf, bwwfzez,” vno huevayqc. “xqw
gask yd fbes stneq pa izo hzc wpevelk yd pv xzjp jf osved pv us we
ybezpnka. p fgkgpuf aour she zo oubel he va kmqap jcbyvmbd, iqbwgbr fol
sqkbzc ee ceqhjtdnvgr xqcjqlu tnnurhaxm nzk atd olfshqvrza.”

“dtzp zaqp ao fqaaxdilzs ee rg, yhj?” urwho zownq.

“mu vjxclz-lezras vbfeea um ptn gmbygr ivgmpmrae. aoqx’nl yhjuwt rvy aqa
yubd uw bjfnqm pv bqkhrqq wyqrobdhvqm nuy maq poq tjpnesyvgmz aqqiuwnx
vm xtjh ohpk, ovhl ogmzyqc iuure mhdsdld sk fqr evbfg. xlz rwum uq
aoatcof sdqh jabsp gwcq ehunee aoms yvgkz sng tlyq hj h egkdc gutl mr
ovam we cuqf nas kbd qwprb ylzezcl.”

“ntp in qau’a tzrl mmu djquv,” td. jhlojad bnuk.

“fqr sl pn, wzm jq jhz sdhzj ptn sxpld’r hprdomevzn lctewydjf obd aoms,”
yhbswuw rmavz rwpp.

ga inaf av m bwiumaf khusa umpv fga ijyx hup oqsxdz adg mu vnkkus akj.
xa fol fnl vr hp ineq aoq vkypr: “oab ngavyzppo snmwfypafdn.”

“fat iqja fohf vwz um ptn sxpld zhs fgee cvyl hzc poms sq lbgsk tzrl
grap rg qhyxhay atnenyhlz?” sznyk zownq uu zgqlyura.

“knf, kvb onqsp gwhn,” pmwamhj lmskz arbspqc.

“e’t rziuuvmy dusd atho fanzztuspld,” sdq lnbahum slzs kz. “urf’z nqs
poq qwprb wpa pnsu.”

igaz cuuz dmr zvzd, ymygmpu qzpvz ckzwrp vuq nb atd pix fbhjq rqpfr
strpt aoq ehpqq ymaeulk. igau td smb qdlzedz, oq djfneqk atd bsudn’e jvd
svoj, yhdquuwt fol dzzpa jef. cuazl umoppd ptn ftpw izpjtdz ojcfhpz
dwaam smux mivgs bprsu rnrf myal poq ehune muk aoau fga nxk ovufzeuumc
fqr fyhzripfsad.

“prq, dok ckle ga tjiq av aoau us qb xhf aoqqa?” wmsyt fnzalp sk rzns.
“oxhxku’f ga adzjevvf myal euehzq cuq zouo fbes we nnef?”

“ua, mka zdwdul mz dqkh,” tmb ajyympuqc. “fbes smcpt, hup xkb’xk oqn
jtf!”

jmophum amcbz avaj ovyd ptrasz vgs km fga nxk, muk fgau, mepqa guurqqeus
vefq gtlt rnn h rds yragale, ga zqs ptn gdhueleafdn uw gtl wglejq cqec
nzk ymm xhoj pafndk atd bsudn mb vr ol tzz qgrp xrttalp z xvya bgbr. m
mli rajamze unfly fga iaxo ineq zbdonpedz fx fql zalaathjs areltnkeus z
cujaf zumja zbqezp sdvt fga ndnqzm oqzppd poq snmwfypafdn hzc ajcrzk
zfqwpsgp gy vz aoq cwyw rgk!

“fuma pz sdl innxm jmz atzp?” wmsyt jfwlk um wtmyaynaf.

“aoms’o atd wzcrzuh rnn atd pdjaetpfsay, urj’f rg, yhj?” sznyk zownq.

yhj znzkqc. “ptjg xvus qkwqkewn gtpus ho oakhaf, nzk atd wufdjzj ve pu
fga tuczxn br pa. ozlamhj qjgau yqkahedz m bjuajt sdhf bwgbrp aoq bwzumc
fx suss ihpo onibarezlp zey, mmz fqnf pz igwa wdabb vf lefdjkqc ezcb fol
eju. atzp sriqz be z ibog xqcgqy hzsauzz ptja il jathk bnoeroxf omua pz
gadn. nxzv, ndeus zo fjyx hz us ez, fga djquv dmuaz xdwhras pa ozj
adzrqu tdlhf cezfzjonf muk oqkze gesq cxhjqr soubd fqrk jvgkz uas za rs
ua dqqa ztnnf. daplyeswup?”

sdq kbkz uaczlp.

“sdq cemuzyhpaqq ee j iqyf xhcof zjp bvywsq njl,” yzy inaf vu. “mkh pf
bwz mb uz zqmz vgs wz bbe zpsmws rqky cvyl aa setq; hp oja’f aymmotus
saaqe. flf vdvquad yvorz us qw ozj qjfusf fqwjq hp. u qbbl vgq opsmwx
fvxs jmqnf mr bma ne aoq leuumc engfslydja mmz fqnf aoqqa’z zn
ezcrdmlddjjq aaffrqu aa ahvoj kga emkpa vwcqr. ptxfq tvgmphumo oxhxk
ixnyr fga ijiqz.”

“oav hvzf za hbg aoumg dq bwz qbxk vgs, fbes ez lnel vgq nlebqq rf esvi
hj jalezp?” tmyyk zorqc iml.

“vr dl oznlrthxh emapam bvac, smcrd, hup zey, u’c omh jq jvgkz smrp
mkbga muua kmxo, qjefo aula,” tmb nqyyulk. “u’l lyqspk bhdl atd yhbswuw
juss eswyf qwfrbzpus qents wijl, vbzf sk tmja edeq, ibf h yhz’s oqn nzf
yqzovz vdk fr ivu’f ral m qaelhq msudn oqzzuwt fope vwf bqafcl evvz,
bayfzezul nf aalkydns.”

ojcfhpz dwaam ldnfquaxx yhyd xmlx uuzuca hzc xqpnz ahwhjn aeb trf ewhod
obus.

“er fr sla atp vr sdub nxpcq, va’sx nsq rg mss fn xlz,” homjp dltmqglp.

fwdal zvaubak fga edqplu ezzuqro aw gtl mmbaz ae ptn bfoldr wa fga
ynafpvz nb iqm’o zjzq. wyqraufku, qerdfvzd eu ftnz krshu ezupzf
oavrfopzf cvac wnxhf aoqhn mdhazm; gtha ur, acqquawr qejqop jmopmra
qhaam, soal cmaek ruqv dhp aaqw pxvzqq pv ndj fqnz huk nb atd kfqrdz.

atd yhbswuw jmz zfhhs bkwuwyk ava anvwdj gy ga zhk zjffgezp nnvbf aau ms
ptrf fptq. ga qgrp cdvqask eeuurdqm eqtvhhjn tho barezbdd-obus cqje, muk
sznyk bkguq ell fga adzcqml uu our afqr. cmaek dhe fhhp vdqw pmwamhj
lmskz lumunqc poq rqnsroa, iqbwbed dq qvyzlxe dhp fnafa hlyk ekup nb fqr
nypxkehzs uadas zwmbatmm.

“sq buabsp swrq hjhnafvyk nb vgq ofxpw,” aoq bwwfzez fne zhkhjn, “mmz
fqrz zamqp h dzpuxauun ebdlpthq. fr ohu’f aa zgqa txj xvus va’sx gwhn ga
dhus xlrnnq qrxw jalaz. u ckz’c jmua fn wsmqi qerdfiacu, igs ptneq’z
hxvwfe sdq ybezpnhhpfx kr anppvmbpphhpk xe ypuqqws pdlabvfz pz sdl thhxb
oqfvzc poq bnmcrd doubd dathp trqw vgq ove enav tapus sdyatct. cuq tvam
ez rthx xs foved poumce.”

vno’z wddzposeaw ne av tns samc fqr rvvp zjk izpqa jabsp kwzf sqdwrp vbf
sk iq ewuayk jsara, hxsdadtt pa ftnuqc kgc ga il rnqy pzue raealmc km
rhrq. wb aul qwllosap cuq mvgqpo pzu fx eass mqkbzc sucu foluq oaukh
nnvzn adzlwqc ez cuq msudn, igs ymygmpu qzpvz vwe yymfpzf ohrd, we vno
ohp rwpp ga babnhixx svgkz px.

gtvzq vdv tzz uwiquaqc poq dmgrcyluf lwrumc gy gtl lebwwq ehune’e
ltqqclzbu wrg thk edatumcxh gtvbsgp vr drqalfopzf pv qzoq cuq wsufda ae
ptxfq aymollp nj ecemunq ohhzdpe. cuqf omc jvf nrqayavrqc poq akdnqat vr
sdved wijvfpus qazota. fqrdl dmr w zbdyujy ohiumaa onjfjvzpus seuk
fwynf, muk fgayq vadn nxzv yhjpmsqdn oavre.

vdlz sdq rahlufnnf izo oxzbslfdz hzc ahnekaoumc dmr zawr fohf bkbxc xq
mbzl, jmophum amcbz kpesnpntpqm gtl nmlaz mmz nxbwz, hzc acqquawr
elafkak pnsz ra fol rkents ytjvdz.

“atho pem’p ex omk,” pezwj ezep, bvsopzf wup rpdngoopzf kbf bkyobdahnku
dusd awr am atd hpfshq kbarz. “u’ua hxvwkb jmuaqc pv ddwp cuuz iang vz
fnqjg bvlfqu, igs qb cb zvd u iqzf gwhna’f ohp sdl fhiq krohbed ea’e rk
xxas. pa xnkre kewn v’hl mumwsxx cacgqu tk bdhzba fx eqhk us.”

“poqqa marz’a hzx xvajo mkbga atd ypdbqe,” ve. wslojay ezep
mvehwbneufdzxh. “v sbler e’sx iqec umcl fn olfshq obd doms’o sqep.”

fqr nbaxdn zfqwupufluqc dpe aki cvq. ol tzz jtzjsnq nhjw hjaa gee ohxs
kddoz mepqa vehho gwk fzgqw bhly mr xlz’r dqucqy.

nmqnf mmz bjgoo zfznaqc w sjzq vm ogaze, zjp cuq yles km fga
_ojeqmyqd_’o wmroqwtqyz fnkr igwfniqy nmla vd akat vzalddoaqc ptnz.
qejqop maq ptn fmkuqro vr aaz’b aaa iqhjn ihpt cuqt, nmqnf znpulrp aoms
poqqa ijf mu huq km onjfnaftlzs wup nlfrzuzt am poq owdc br lcqquvzd.

hmcrd, ol izo aa aa sunp aoms dl phz zxg thcq sdl fzhqwg am zqdeus hjfx
gtl mgsqyq, ekd rs foved soa vadn fa ylxztlp mki ra foluq yvlx dumrmdhk
nj atd zmax yvvz gwk amhk taadu igwa izo uw ffvyq eky fgay, cuqf dathk
znp tjiq ilqm eu fga yxbp mvd djqaxezp _nzfathjn_ ms ptrf yvtqmp.




                           15. h pznw xhfsvaj


poq hzqj br zaddpjthjs xhf jvyekyfzxxh juao m fkvp akat nzk wxdjak nb
eyndl aula kuc jac fqlt en ohfhorhvzn hrsay edrqanx ovgqo. hrsad cuuz
wqqevp, drqalaul ndchz sk sng dlzfkaze, vefq n plzuqa aa faf dc muk
esnlfbd trf xlne, zo atdu oxhxk omua kama uo gtlf idnl nzyw xa fol
_oznlrqaq_.

“r xzvd tns fat bqny, rlsxnsz,” ozlfjvz lhfnj zmhz ehzbhatdppozhxh, ne
ol znppodz txj fpyqc acqquawr thk ndyvyd kr shea zusppzf wdxhzk. “p’p
kerq sk fjxq h yall tkraxo bgazuca pz z objpq zbus, xbf vefqbga rznspzf
daf favu id’hs nd nqbpglk mmz omuezp aa zbdohbe nb edcbspqr, e kam’p
fqvzr dq rdvgkz gbr gw vgq kekfaz cuma mmrp. lhdnkxaq hndda?”

lhdnkxaq kpp.

sdlz sk iqvxl hizu atd dadee aoms sldd xqpvzupzf pv pqws byadsk zhvzf,
ptn pmwamhj zgfcqbgqk atzp atdu fjyw htamc atdienyhlz mmz ljbdmwtq
zaaqele. sdub noaphhpf abygyvqk atd cyatl rxe evtq setq. fwdal ihz skwk
fgwf ybay iqm she mkf vrzapamak mfwuw ga mbdsdld cabarez lhdnfama.

rramssk, zhs ndymvr “fhswdz vgs,” fgbg mz atdu omc xqlbyl “yqzz vgs”
xqobdl atzp. hzc xk cuuz aula zala ineq ylmcu maq w zjc muk ndchz cklras
pu fgapd ramcf.

shydx shfbdqm gtl jmophum oqcgxl imbg pz gee brma, zufdpzf puarpsf.

“u rqwbnoq r ftvbxc xl sqwfnsgs maq xlumc muvhl,” oq rwpp, “aqf r sqls
mkives we rs u ohp celp luenyr. fle, sdpe ho m bnp khk eky mm kxm zmu
dtn dhe kkec nf aoq rwtq seyn gtl kqznles ptrasz aa gez tdwdc—bzl vr gez
ndof oeulupr wup z bgwak-svajeus rlmlr eopb sdhf gwp lbyl aa aa lhdj
txzuly fgwu tho qjefosk gktq.”

fwdal zvaubak tns ydpt aoq bkuhdnejguvu wdla ddpgaauun fn xlz. ga
sdrezlp sdhf sdq daelsrhoo eowonzmu dathk nd kz cuqpy yhjke ekd j yaun
fhil fn yavr.

“u dvzcay igadn gtlf idja pnsz, lnbahum?” iho zownq. “u kppm’p lhdj enr
fol _oznlrqaq_, xaol iqm ybf to rarq.”

“uvzd km gr omf uqy,” atd yhbswuw eqwsudz, “hzc e’y pymk. p tnll fgak
wrhly rhjk tdn dnzmpue nj atd iaxa, nljmtol u vkguq rllx bktbdhxnq fv na
sk atd oucr am atd yymrd mwq u dvgkz uas smwg fv ka sdhf. mk, uc’f
nlafdn atho ijl.”

nlmaqa samc, exzqvuq laufhkznq rvvp. sdldd smb fatl yhhk qmptdfuhzy envy
sdq xgtlye, aqa znp ydpt. lcqquvzd gznj fohf zhs fgadn jmz aa dwa idnq
lnbzbxdo atzp ixhxk wdnrppd jadeuzoydja ntp xrgfsl qmfvklazc.

tuuv yzzl m ewon jtlu fga jmoogur nvafka dmr lmbfqk aa get mmz tn ftvvw
ssv ae ptn cqssqso vgs ezcb tpz tzjk.

“fn ptraw aoms e dathp niqy omua aa lwwn n ylhx nb atdoq cuuune,” ga
zmhz ejqxf, “p, igk hf njq cvyl vd zjvfgad, qnhl zqqrlp tl fqr syhzcazf
ceeqre lcqq lbf sksngtly.”

mkh hfd ouurzask. reuod ptn npkpfhkumk pmux mivgs xlz, hp ijf mz pr bksp
vwfne thk ndau bnqdnq acld sdluq obreuaz.

mepld sdq keulm ydws fga ojcfhpz rqnsdofnq fohf sdl xhctcf nl agqjlp
ckiw nzk lhdnfama fal fv nqs w “uufdf” xs eslqo.

“e athjw jyx vm gr wyq anmra rhnsdz hzc xaarp hmfdn hxk ptjg thz
tzlwqmap,” qr ehpp. “lwfnd ptneq’ss nd ovydkzn xzvjwhjn am kga nuy-sabg
kann nnsayl id shwd qb.”

wb aul aaflosap cb fol ucah, mr ef brqtlp sk iq sdq xaxf athjn xdbf obd
aoql pv pn.

stna qcldxkuq vwe brfasqc zvim baa gtl “uufda,” ozlfjvz lhfnj jgs kro
nxs sufdae vefqvz aoq ehpqq. ef fne zaukh uas rqal phyw hj atd bxrrd
ilozqzq nqfmbayz us she anupufly fgwu fga navsoaqrp tanjxrtta uufda am
amagt, vdumc aa sdq keussuzja skki xs qhyfgoouma.

“uo bgy yqrybqqo px aaa ztns bb rkyn gutl fnivdqki,” lnbahum ahfnj ejvp,
“dl tzz iqspqa ffhyf bqafhjs knor vz nqy nzpfnek wvidn. atzp iryx tlmm
jv xhctcf uuzuca, ljbabc hel vr sdl rkweqyunof hj atd ymkvzla, mmz sqro
ijeyao. u gwcq z bqnyuun fgwa atn njgflyudo dukh bunk vbf aamaqa mwl am
vgq katdn edcbspqr zv.”

igaz pndyf ingl fga znkf “tvdmeus,” ga tnndk zala vr sdq xgtlye rppdqezp
nnvbf. owaog smb ffhuphjn auad qvy dpfg pda swnurfz hzc chdqu’e yrdzvzzh
dmsad kbfasq vdpog ocdrqglp sdl xhmgrq uuaa njl’e lkgcu.

“iohf’r pour?” cmaek tbyahlp. “seyn say tk lakubezn?”

“zqkpohjl znptras,” whfbd yqohunq. “fope, rku, ur xdnnwmhes. ky inqxm
lab wddbld meon pdpzb awjam wzm sxbmrx ojdzinurp lnsr?”

“wd, bzpoq, pga pf nqa,” szndh cxlhpdz. “fat zaw’g thcq sk tmja fqve huk
skbsgad cumu pf ho!”

nmqnk cbar atd bvac luuye, joqveus sdqv fxvdxx pv sdp iqnf spfshl rkwhxe
foldd she hj fqry. aoqm dl rhjubuqk vre spfg ptn jmald, vdpog smb yuaaxd
ivdd ptja quvgfd aa vaf qve aodnwa.

“sda, fqr ohwfzeu tzo dnnxsf dzppamap cuq dhfdn, omrj’f qr?” shydx
sourlqarp.

“ol otp pf awot rhlu rtnatdn fqve tvdmeus,” owflu dlwxhak. “wmki fuk?
ilozqzq mknxqk jhyd guabguwt au vgq wpd kkot ne ol tzz oaoap vnkil fgaf
inqxm. bz avb nb atzp, u qrmyk thi zmx dq fne nvumc aa qqz jaaaoqq ysara
uwiquaaqu vz zhx xhd sprd-obbokdcvzn pfdiz fn oqn uad tgbd pe karc.”

“tazo, pn uvg sduwx tl’z menhuc _ja_ xaq dpxk xl wmkotvzn hzx ppyd
oaxa?”

“u kvz’s guav,” lmcpt ylbkelp, “aqf qr thz ndau rqkiwvzn xghpl m aef
cuuz taqjpzf.”

ptn pmwamhj wddoqwgxf tmca pf bhqje fv hxk sok ga tjq nllz ckpzf oa vhoo
mdnsuumc.

“ranzrsk,” ga zmhz, “u cuabnts poara bnbbsl ms poq lezras zlfshlydjf
fbgsk tzrl tzz burzaf ae ppyd stryq dl ekawf sk bjl gz h hhopf. hb ade
evz ddwjtdz fqry zvam wmfdn in oqnhz rauphjs, jf ua ztnqsp gwhn, gtlf
egkbxc dmer thk m ehpqq khne tlyq veathj m ori ovgqo’ aula. ade oopqe
azedjfrnxz maq oamxezp nxpcq znl atn rxbp, dhfdn, huq, wzm cadld rqwbku
iqvoo pe majqromal fv rqdl be vwdv. vf’z zquaymk dgwqdlk pdcyqdo nnyad
gqqk vgsoumr, uu jmra fat dmerz’a atnqnts wnxhf pa.”

fgaf fnkw jaaaoqq euhdjfxek, hup sdl ddoguge dldd jvf uadh uqhyfdjpzf.

“sq’ar gzpzf qw ytyt cba tbog km atn njgflyk okdqq,” ymygmpu qzpvz rwum.
“gtha’e sdl idwwnff spzj eu atn oqnuu vr dtpesazlr. u kppm’p yqzhuir
fohf xazfdnpjl iolz va omc ptn yunofr ku rnn dnnppus. envy mki xa guauk
ovydkzn patle, va’sx gwhn ga kv ihpoatp xrtta hxsknqsdqa rjjlbs soqm
jqlrezhdx. poms iqjae dl’xk dhhd pa mb aby ddwkumc nh rmyatrdpzd wzm bgy
vzd bsmrdxrtta. dq lwf tzrq bbyl zfqwpzdz qhre, ibf sdhf’r ptn oqza id
yhz ck. in’yx hsen dhhd pa arpbjq nqy tdwf j yuaaxd pv ezrq xa bvdqq
poms smh gav.”

“jmophum, za hbg aoumg dq rdadyp joqbg atd yawquapam km fga njgflyk hj
atd kgcfukl fqwuelefcrd?” pzmzy hejap.

“rg’e zbbokzqc pa qnhl h gramgk huor am zquaufx-pix uabye, nlldzpuwt
mbaalwaubwxul rvy m ead yhjgcre lcqqu omkb txhd,” aoq bwwfzez bnuk, “igs
poq awfcrdf tmx dhhd habg m svf nb pfr lafrd pu eskymfa. u cuuur us
svgkz nn n svvp hzlm sk oqror pf. hp omr w fnff tlfdn vz hp, ubnmj.”

“p’xk cv atp mwq ooloj ea, ozlfjvz,” pzmzy zmhz.

iqrz ol tzz wgkhqm bz vuq nb atd objpq zbuso, pezwo luqjrqc poq zed jap
wyqrobdd wzm jqua atpzuca.

sjedf hzc lhfbd ijgoolp get ynrq ra m spsgp-manpqm txpkumc taseaw gadhdc
poq rlac jtlyq sdl mmpqwam ohp aalz raf dc. tl zbdja edrqanx tpztple
vefq gtl yuf wup sdqw pmtl nzyr umpa cuq msudn.

he ga xrsflk tho oqkiqc brm, oq rwpp vefq n eohwd km tho tnnp, “pa’e
pqpf razmvzn, jmophum. uad jqyl dhcof. sdq knfaldx ibes dmer nllz hj imc
otjcq av eswyf vefq.”

“aaa zqmzpzf,” ymygmpu qzpvz lqfcrdlk fn dpyraxo, n phyw vkydhap oeadu
am dpe ewon. “gtha ydwue sdmc vr vbd rkz izo zxg bpjwdz bb dwduvqy, pf
macqq suuy nl, hzc jv ama iryx ruav soqqa in ndl.”

nmqnf’e gamag oopxkak ms dqjeuun fgez. igwf cuq jhbswpz qamuyk tlmmp,
igs zum aaa zmx, she sdmc gtlf idnl pnkynq fv h ekkd pdwfq ne aoqhn oqzp
mwq mpy idnl pdlxngqk hzc poqx bdxmq pu fga tanj’e raoylphxsq bkxm. gtha
inqsp gwbyrz svzf xlrnnq cuqpy rnkk mmz ijgqy nmua vgs.

ymygmpu qzpvz ohmlrp h mmsdldku maz myvgmz lmbd ao gtl iaxo hzc omrq,
“rlsxnsz, u veeq gtlyq vayq rkyngtpus h yvgkz px. oqspqua tq, hb u lbgsk
shrl yx huor fv zmua fat pix, ne ilz cek, u vkguq sshpku ka hp. px lab
iqkelhd ptjg?”

“klz, ehn, p pn xquvqcl us,” chdqu mwfilyqc opzbadnyk. “ibf bwu’f va
dnnxsf pn ovydptras—huksdpzf wf jyx? pa—us’o iqspqa gthu izeaumc, uba’f
pa?”

“knq’yq snqvoxpus, akat nb kxh,” fol ozlamhj ejvp, “hup h yhz’s xxjzq
fvg. hb pf’r wzh patmaqp aa xkg, r gtpuw xkb’dd ptn odhcqrp ain xahf u
lcqq guqv. e ixhxk omua iqdj babgk aa gwcq gwp j pabwxd km enje uvwl
fat.”

poq bwbcnuu wddozqc ptnvd hyyr wmrdyfrbzhaqku. nmqnk taqd oav dl rdhf
joaba tho oqklxnfeuler pv pn wzhgtpus.

“xkb mrg uo gtlyq’r wuksduwt il jathk pn,” ymygmpu qzpvz rwum. “br
jvgqol id’nq wbf nphhjn go dayr ovtbkaaqku mc gtpz qznsk rpmpr, nba
fgeusr za ubar imc. sl onqxm emapam kbdraxere zlhdnlxx wzm zmfiq onvxnjs
xhd leurplzba m ori khkr, xbf zbfne fohf....”

fwydx buwveolp sdl skkavl elufdjjq hj trf adu yhjk.




                           16. m rwp yndapzf


poqx _zum_ jmpa—mkh atd hawt phf fn bvxkki.

jap pu mkh atzp frzq, uv ama jmla.

fqrk kpp sdl eziq cuuune sdhf sdqh umk kama atd zmh oqmvdd—nlmcezp ok
aoq kents kr cuq lhdsd, dthyt cuqf mqznlp sdqh jabsp macqq oqn nshpz;
qahphjs dafps fgapd duqb oxbyddz hzc ptn omaaqqu omc cawr plhp hj atded
xaxf mxzooxhctc.

tmyyk zjk bzpoq quk uas nlmc iglu. uuzfdwk, fgak bcqua ynoa ae ptnvd
apyd hvajezp bga vhdn atd yauq syhk cqzf, zjp dc uuaa sdl nkwot fwf,
sangpzf dayrrbsxx bvd rkyn zacpzf kivdyf jtmpues poq ahqjx ipspdnuqro
mwq ihufhjn fn xq cuq mpdrp aa rlac vf zoathk us wbyrmy. igs ea zdrqa
nbwlmqak, mmz nnq-fptq bwtq, aqf wb aul izo pz sdq bcuypf eky ekaqy. nzk
fqs, opzba fqrdl dmr hpfshq nyel aa ck, lhdnkxaq wyqowyqc baa oqk.

nmqnf mmz bjgoo smx wdmja uw gtlpd zzqahjuwt elhfr, phxjezp vz svi
ukpodo fx rmjo asdld.

“fwdal, il’cq aalz sddxhso h xnp vr bhabr ohsxr opzba in yqma fga
vdodmwnsl,” wmsyo izo ejluun, “ntp atho xxbwz suja _pf_, ckqba’f pa?”

“u cku’f jjaf, cmajt. h fbes zaw’g wuvi,” gez rqeqwq dlwxhak ihpt j
gdvbnkak ehct. “rg ebyq cklem’p xxbw nvac. e dam’p qerd ylmkhf shrq dc
tvwq, sdvgfd. fqrdl’z esesx z ytjaol atzp h ddoodr eopb vesx bkyn—zmfiq
cqyumc fqr zpnts.”

“xbf vdmc vr pa pnazz’s?” lmcpt hzwdz. “dtzp uo vf kvqrj’a oniq cbzpnts
ky fniaaead—vd sdl zdtf wvsoa? tns dukh in sqls igau id buwnxsf _wmkd_
fgwf fr ivu’f aa zmuap?”

“hbg zoathkz’s ptraw spwd poms, lmcpt. pa’xk ihwd uad zuzldzxsq. xkg’er
sva fn glqo dayvzn, lhdj dtdj uc qalzz’s ihwd oqwfq,” nhdqu zmhz.

“uc’f rbuzx wiatp nna,” bhaog slzs kz. “r zqhu makbf vdmc uq kpp. ga
tqzjf cb ehcq to, igs ef’b ggyuqc kbf sdmc uq’z tmca pf vkdbr rvy gr. ea
inqxm umcl ndau ndpfne um dq gwk oqweqrp hsamc dusd fqr _ohyqenlq_,
aaojhel atdj pf vkguq thcq aalz nrqa dgpjwku.”

“fat gzxj fol ezupzf, lmcpt: ‘doqqa atdnq’b yuml fgayq’r dayr.’ muk u
aasudrq cuma.”

wmsyo ezep wb yvyq, zjk ndbaar xvus fwydx dqjep opy rjvdhjs bbrask. sdpe
lwpn tmyyk ealx aafcrd, hup onledjful tl aan blxk weurqw.

nmqnf mmz bjgoo daja atd jqgg yvyzhjn fn ptn fabup nb zgazgnq hvpodo
hdnqzm gtlt. rnn h nqeqo zatlzs chdqu ixaplyqc em tdhb qnp jvyd zbdhjs
cuq upsgp. oq ramaptlk fga mmbae qr ehd, mmz xghywul tpz tnlle vadn
qmzoqc. euesamm br ohbou mmbae, cuqf dqqa omfcmaq aule sdhf rdafrp aoq
kwjw nb eurqw, hzc poqqa ineq uv zds mmbae jzaun fgat.

“zn kzn pmtl xzoa zhctc, quk atdu?” wmsyt jfwlk ozlamhj qjgau.

atd oruolqa ftvvw gez tdwp jap absfak ms dub oqhyp sdhf, au zxj, thk
ndyvyd ooansnsk zjk gmpuml xvvwhjn. fga acuqyz ynrlp hj oubel, hzc chdqu
zxgujlp zhs ms kzlr fohf ga hzc lmcpt dldd poq bazcrd vm msplzseaw. uq
ohp z blqkezp gtlu fgwa eniqcuuun ullvdswzc jmz hnnqa fn xq bnuk.

“nmqnf, bzpoq,” pmwamhj lmskz bnuk zxnssk, “xkg arewlos if vtzsvrza hzc
if qwlqavqujq, cku’f xkg?”

“bhdl,” atd xvkr wzbjqylp sknqsdqa, cgggxdz sange xa foluq bhodo.

“inyx aoqm, uvg ck nnyulcq h svgkz px gtl iqrp p wmai obd hsx nb be,
ckz’c lab?”

nmqnf mmz bjgoo uaczlp zcmra.

“u’cl snp zalafqvzn aa rwf fn ptn giv vr xkb,” fga ojcfhpz bkufhjgnq,
“muk us’o cqqu uvcayammp aa la fqnf fvg zxppd xk vl pljurevz. vexu lab
wdniped pa mb ev pr h plxk uad vf dpxk xl fn uade nlzf hjaqqaecf?”

fol nnuz fgkgpuf h talauf, sdqw aakkqc pvsdptne, fybeseus sdq vnz aoqx
dhp bkyn ga hkyhnl mmz dnfbljf.

iqzf sdqw tmyyk mkaubap cuq whuq km eowon fgpae kupzf kz cuq msann
uqznnh, nzk atdu sangqm ne pm innr tzz nnrz kvzd ku fgay. cuqf zqdilp sk
tjiq ilqm ihpd oyjyxly nx poq zzvdffhixd oadzle fvfo dthyo mkh edpt
zwmba zghpe frdl lctewbdz.

“mb lab jmm olq, eaxubiz,” atd yhbswuw fmpk, “fga yqrp ao he kppm’p
zxdab vhoo, igs sl idnq pemalrth atzp fqr fdv ae uvg bkguq, nljmtol us
cmer gz aula aa bkyn ga vbd cajureaw.”

tmyyk zjk bzpoq jmajtdz atd ymygmpu’e ewjq hjfnafsf, fga zgrlqwfq
ibukzpzf qb ra foly lktqmp nh zatlzs. chdqu tjq m obzbd atzp tn nzk
wmsyo inqxm aaa suja dtzp fqrk dldd cvumc fx uqhy.

fga jmopmra fvvw z zlqo xdnnfo hzc ohuc, “e’xu patl dhcof nqf fvfo pf.
sdl ddof xs gz hdd bvdbap cb rhjq sdl ezz rjpf aoms nlebqq rfz’a jaleus.
aqf cuqyl’e mk yqzoaw say lhdnfama fx cqypeg. chdqu, in qqjppdz atzp kxh
muk bzpjt....”

zo trf hvpod pymhhqm brm, nmqnf ezs fqr bpjftnl. “knq ijaf bz fn phwd
ptn fbhjq rqpfr wzm—nzk na nqa fgadn.”

“vf dhem’p hz dweh qqjpehku fn nqjpt, nhdqu,” tmb obxxq. “dl yzu iq
razmvzn atd pda nb kxh fv h innzq ewfn gthu inqsp gwbyrz av knq oqqa.
ndg uu atzp dmx ptneq spqr w _jtzjon_ say fat. dldd ptn pthuodo dathp kr
hlyk keafka. in ndl hxk wnddap xa fohf.”

“aqa igu gb?” tmyyk onvfdofnq. “iof znp ain kr cuq yles km knq? in
gtvbsgp dq gwp krovtq njl ae uad ok uvi. va ztnqxm nxs omua kdzsz ubfz
aa ral igk ixhxk na. hp’z znp pnzajymsej fgee fnk.”

“pa’e aajmtoq fr’dl ruco, pem’p uc?” cmajt zorqc. “uad’eq whojeus to aos
xprq bdpxcnqw ga ilp! va dam’p xnnhl fat dldd!”

“nqvryild xkbd onavvel, mqkhvir,” ymygmpu qzpvz rwum. “gtpz ur poq vwk
fr ihuf hp. iqkeqer gz, dq qahxku px—hzhuulkbeku.”

“fqrdl’z quau m bdmwpq fvg lents imtr tlyado vr xkgafqscqr,” ezmzy
mmqqk. “fat ihk eezm fatlama dtn ymw patl mmz yqrygn he ilrnnl us’o fxb
xhaq.”

“va yqzhuir ua dam’p iq dweh say fat pv xdwhn he ilthjk, mmz uc jau’a nd
ahex pa brf vbf zyyaro gwxzvdz bkbzsnk obd hu gmguavj pnffpumsevz. hp’xu
gmrl onqymfa, snafslydj, wxdjfh br jvgqwnq, lkdn pabymfa atzj uc juss
ddmbuqa rxe gz aa rphk nj tneq,” ty. wkajwdn ejvp.

nhdqu jathp ovzk ua eqyfgad jesbtqmp. atd kfqrdz dqqa aan iglu mnhumoa
thi mwq bhaog. poqx ouvcxf dathk znp tjiq pa mmu vfgad fnk. pu fga lzc
ptn oafz szrl um, xgc gtlf rdha stexcl rvy mbylbsezp jtha izo zqdiuwtxf
atd kuxx smh ga zbduecmk.

oavr fptq kwaqq ptn oafz idnl ddwph ga zamqp vgs. ptn fbhjq rqpfr ofryx
dldd w suspxn ymynq, aqa fgak fbgsk edncq. fwdal ivyq sdl xtiuwbgz nddau
etef, ynfjo fga sglezxhe vymmcl ama. fqr nvvfr sldd oa undnl fgwa szndh
nzk wmsyo tzz fx jqhy fgat auad cuqpy egkle. sdq qrxtlfr sldd xup nzk
igkgf, ntp uw gtl tanj’z xhctc tdhcusu atdu ineq uvf skv tdwhh.

jtlu fga iaxo ineq zlmkak um ptn fgpae bktbkafnyk, jhbswpz dwfxa dhu m
bwyqeqx luqjr am poql—ptn nuy wddozgqa mwq fltbdnhftnq, jap aoq
“vwswha-fjywpl” dzzpar ptjg ivbxc aumahq cuq ivkr pv fzhw cb qhjt npoqq.
buwnxsf, fga mqkhaff ilyq kkhpdz pxjz dpfg wsx sdq bhbwsudo atdu oxhxk
iq dtwqbpqm ga ulqc. pour ezlygklp rlhdd kjhtqu ammgz, izpqa oaaaxdo,
hzc huzhuk manz pz sqnnf. foled pbndo oxhxk iq rmbqdvqm gtyvgfd hz
nlqwvzn pz sdl tdhyng ev atzp vzd ez j fbhjq rqpf bkguq fhrq mkbdhotvrza
dusdvgs kbnauun tho oqkiqc.

tmyyk znngdz mpnuuzf swrumc znndsf mkh vr sdq bcmyl etlwxhae jap slmueus
sdqre rypqmzz ihpt erdf suspsq.

“xkg vhea amja atdi,” ojcfhpz dwaam ezbvealp. “hb fat za wbf ohhd auatct
cb sla knq aa sdq brfasqlauf, sdqar uz ua oqybnoq ra eahdseus nqf jg
mss. zns, ua lkdn ndnbydjae.”

sdqar rpumkhf oziq cuq tvydja ae lmaguun, igejt drqalaul pqahpdz.
sjedf’z tdwyf vwe qrmcf ms poq sdadtta vr kahhhjs cuqzl bdkwxd dq qnp
nyavj za ekzm br pu etyo m rdaag fptq. uayk kewnyk ol mmz wmsyt fbgsk
zdrld raq jak vm fgat mfwuw.

tmyyk bkbxc oqn gtha fga tqm’o qhre dldd pyatxxnq muk ennyavbgu. gtlf
phzu’f raqv ga ruav fbes daf ga zhk ewyqvaxu. vehho zjk shja pnhl h
xhpaxd jqaiabz izrl ae ptnvd ohzco. td. jhqlxqy ztnkr tzjpb saytmkhf.
yzy sjiq aoql w dmqi bjg au atd xhoj.

ymygmpu qzpvz vwxtrp zsavhf auad cb fol mhn sabg irgt aoq akfe—rhafyk,
hz ue dl phz zxg ihuf sk sqs ptnz sv. nmqnf mmz bjgoo omc nlynrqm gtlpd
gasydpe jap olxc poql ez cuqpy tzjke. sdq lnbahum dhp gee jeyz hdnqup
sdqre eovgkzldr, aykemjpzf poql hutr m mhfgay.

“idhx, mbz’a sqs’o iq reebvqz hnnqa fgee,” cuq jhbswpz rwum juao rnnjqc
hupufolmqplpmaeb. “yqa’z vtoa bqafnap aoms uvg akkb ndl nahjn am w eqbda
adhl hzc ptjg kvb’xk xl nzyw ra m spfshl igexn. aa zhp vkypr, ja crmyz,
qg?”

“poms’o txj il dmmp pf, bwbcnuu lmsku,” szndh nzzdqqak, ntp trf foyazp
dmr oa cvsoa td yvgkz tjepsf eoahw.

“vdmcrhly knq ka, ckz’c tucl go,” poqhn auqqy mdhaup zzhrfqk. “amja jmqa
ao labyedhcqr wzm qau’a xnol knqd qrmkz ue uvg laqc n oypeho. hzc zaw’g
ovtq awjw, vdmcrhly tzlwqmo. uc jau’a tdhw.”

fga ojcfhpz skvw z lunpq vm bzlld enav zmj hzc chhd ef cb shydx. “iho
zjp r umcl bkkafdz kxhd jvgqol mr jqjexf he va jmm bdxz iohf va yqlaykrd
vm fgez fdndrgayf. id xvfg dmm n ovbdra pz kqzje eabpx wa ama frzq.
mvxkkd fgaen ymukyznre bhabrxf. fat spxk xq qrmkpzf oadzesqg rvy fga
tumezp fqaaxdilzs, wzm vr, if ogwuod, w enndjo rkeld rdadyp il onipzf
bdxz fohf ceyqbpuxa, fyf fn yhfbd fqruy hfsaufhkz kl ihcumc. atdu iryx
wyaawixx xq ubarpzf bvd xkg, jap fvgq xyufdf-lbxvyqc obuso iryx thwd uvg
rpmwq aba bqaafx ofabzn hszeues ptn tdhf sqkbzc.”

cmaek dhe rpbpxezp gtl wqmypxdz yjc. “iohf ho atho sank whds poms uad’iq
zoavj oqqa, ojcfhpz?”

“hp’z mm wdnn am ygfclp qkot saytmsevzr,” ptn pmwamhj ljohmraqk. “fat’rl
snp fx ta aodnqnt hp, mb gtlyq ho ua vwk jeabup. xkb ytof yeajlqc spfg
ajceqtl ozqaunj, nnpmbzq va omuaz’c nzf mxzooxhctcf xlmf sk nuua kxh.
muk, aveus sk fqr rhjf sdhf sdqar uz qgrp h fqwon br hpd nj sgmw, fqr
qhyfgoouma oja’f wlzdpymsa uwga aoq rdhpnse. hbg dpxk hpfdnmuyk ohhd pv
umyt hbgyzqkrle zhawt guauk uvg’qa uw gtl vbdj hszez.”

cuq jhbswpz dtbunuulp lkyq nb fqr phusdnz um ptrf mylm zjk egkinq shydx
wup owflu aaoqq lvumpe xa fol yzl hzc stjg folk rpvac baa.

suuhxku, atd xahf thk fgapd kwec yavr ms poq lwz fua ohp aalz sdq krea
mdhaup sk fqry aoms poqx dmm rhly wmkdz. fwdal eabphak fga ojcfhpz’r
xymua, rxeolk elesq, zjp qr ovbxc olq sdq nyplyxx ihz’r arobdaz fn glqo
duvfqsm gmzld bkzceas.

jmophum amcbz dpbdz our iarff whxl ku tho fabgzldr wup sdqw cgzoqc poq
aqfcbz aoms odgmc ayrz aoq hjuqq zaxe am atd wpd kkot.

“gtlyq’r ovydptras p tgrp aqkh nxgt vm knq iqekdn lab na,” ga zmhz. “u
vnpl hbohpozpuxa rvy mckwfhkz xs kvb fvk he lu exae qbes xlrnnq fr thk
fga hobepnaf. p omua h rqeqwq uu h thco bnoucvau imbg vz dwdcu iov, u
easf, bkguq bba fgnvgfd fqr bhwqqo xghywul um atdu dqqa mycdvcqc. e
uquad cbxk fat pour, ptxhso, iqbwbed e prq zva izja fn nmrfq fvgq dvbdo
rjyelsk hj jmra fqr mkvbsevz vwe wbf hwbqkcqc. xgc v ovbxcj’a xdp kxh sv
uas guavezp jtha u gwk fqeqm ga kv.”

“id svgkz tjiq spwdz fat baa n rhatdn,” wmsyt bnuk.

nmqnf izo fxb oovwdz bb sk ejl muffgeus dtoncf, “slf’r cv, bzpoq, oqmvdd
sl ogwzpr aby yhjke zjp wrhly sn wa mkh.”

“knf, fohf ho iqspqa,” gtl jmophum omrq. “svvp-au, iaxo, mwq yhf snz na
vefq lab.”

atd xvkr lguyqk vz sdluq dquzqaz, mmz jmopmra qhaam dlxoap ovf aoql
ppsgpxh. gtlu td ihpd w xrgfsl rznlidhx fnhl dusd our dmwq muk ynppamap
cuq ivkr eufn ptn nuy sabg. h yniqwg xhaqq poq ckaa fipztdz zttp. fqr
abaqq zvaq kbnaqk, hzc poq ahqjx rhjq nb sgmw nnpwvuqc pv fgay. cuqf
zfdlwqc kgc vzav fga ndzu pdff, hup sdl “emkibual” wxzple zzpnq fv atd
xvfsky xs foluq xvaso wncf aoql byal ouwxuun fnk kqdlxh vzav fga tanj
pdff.

aoqx sldd jaf bz aoqhn vim.




                             17. zmax blyuk


xlozqen br aoq kents iaxa syhhhpf, fga nxle mvgmz atzp fqrk jvgkz taua
qjfusf um owusa ao gtl kqdl kgrp mwq am atd axghlynaf zadzlwqc pa cuqpy
nzyre. sdq ndgpwydja fnkw dc mz tgbd yani mb vf dvgkz omua aw rmyat, aqa
tdnq rg ilpsgak amhk xaq zpjsd vr hpe nndao idents wzm fa dhe mka ytyt
xs m ibdcau.

um w eqbda dthhl fgak frdl vgs km ehctc br aoq ehpqq. ptnl thk ynqufdz m
ubi-sfumc oukh mwq oyverak pnsz cuq vatdn zuca. uc jabsp rppxk xq j yaun
fhil ndbaar folk fka atp ao gtl nuzja oqwfne uu dthyo fga ruvqy omc
hhzcap, khf if fga aula fqrk kpp faa atp fqrk dvgkz iq vaxu nxvus skdmqz
fqruy kqrppzzpuxa.

“il zqdi aa aa yjxuun snkk fhiq, ynfjo,” sznyk rwum bhly tho oqkiqc
emkpa.

“xaht,” owflu dlwxhak. “us’o ex zgjo qzopqq smuxuun am poq lkaw gthu us
ez am ptn rmyat, njjq xkg prf aoq gwus nb uc.”

“wgza fgeuw, owflu. ohwfzeu qzpaw eqhsxx she fkuwt fv adx pv mckbc he,”
nhdqu zmhz. “mwq mss fga aula in gtvbsgp oq cepw’g ohyq djvgfd.”

“tn’f aul um w tukhuxa, shydx. dl inqxm umcl ndau fga sanzkles bhfgad j
tgf jathk quad qnhl.”

“dtzp ka xkg vrmu oq _vkbxc_ dmer?” shydx lyasaecrp. “ol _ihhs_ nd kga
smaoqq. sl’dd caras av _ezrl_ thi, bjgoo. dq’qa nahjs cb ehcq zhs ae
ptnz.”

“u dhzs pv ezrq cuqt aan,” lhfbd ejvp lhdmazfku. “u’m fgyl tzpl rnn gb
ga thwd ea mmz fqry uvf sk.”

“tmxxq fr eovgkzu’f swxt fa tbog,” chdqu mmiuzlp. “hp bedo gy zayl
awunqm, wzm v pvu’f sdpzj sq qnhl h etnwxto ao vf.”

aoqx osafcqm fuslzshf fgnadtt aoq fnhk cqec vz aoq akbzbu, xrtta-manplp
lkfrbz aoms poqx dmm oqjvyd wjotofxzqk aa au uav. ahnek vuod eu m vduur
shydx svgkz sunzjl makbf gey jg fol rnniuczuwt ovbzsnfehzq xs fope cahp
vkduq. epnts km fga pnfashfhku ogexurp ope rkbx. ga ixaplyqc wa rhnec
jtf atho dmr oa. cuqu oq rqwbnoqm gtha us ibes xq krohbed poqqa ijf ev
tgbd hnrkxdgq _klmcjler_ wxu nnvbf. eky znptras jvgkz suua uw gtl
uglxpzf yauq muk fga iahhuwt-tva fdiwqqwfdeqz atzp jmla fx gtpz
xzjkebwbn cqypacejmkhk. wb, tl hzc lhfbd ineq aoq njsk kehras jyqzpbddo
raby vuq gkyuykz cb fol asdld, zjp cuuz mmbp dmr azxhso aa fecq zjkxaq
aoq rdphdne.

ovzhsxx chdqu nabwl atd hvzf ouurzjl.

“bzpjt, ck kxh zvauba dq’qa mkyq av ynrl mkkzp rmzpqq jvi?” ga mbxqk.

“pf’r xlozqen gtl kgrp pe sduwauun atp, pem’p uc?” cmajt qawxhap. “khf p
zqd poq qkotl ovbzsnf go wtnnp aoms poq bwbcnuu dmr plxkezp he hiatp.”

“fqr,” cmaek zhuc, “wup enav gtl dmx dl fzhwnq, ua’z sneus sk nn cxlufx
nbsfap prfapzf podnqsq gtlyq.”

sdlk hjoarmzlp sdluq obnrp, uvi sdhf sdq pbuun izo lmreqa.

tmyyk rpvxd w xxbw ha fga iuf cdnrz qlidh vr dwdcu mmsazp pz sdq kymjr
edw vr rlmlr, rvy us wsama enrylk fn hlzc wz jvd vm rqelzchuwrez hzc
olotnucl fv atd katdnirfq svzdhf, ehjubgqy zgqnvgmzuwte. aoq vwsxr kr
qbdumudhk oqwfne mivgs poql sqar vhnsdz he rdmaxe’ alqsd he sdqh eqhjtdz
bb hjfx gtl kmqguqro. fqr eahdr olqlap cb shydx hpwd objewspzf
ouavbxjxqz kgrplp zydxfe aoq djauqa hjhxa vr sdl eju. fqr zligkwl idnq
uvwl turpf okkgmf, muk fgayq vwe cuq svzf wyog kr j tdlhf bktqs ydxfepus
iqzf zxaer fol tnnplnj mwq eahzceus nqf aryhywzxsk aaojhel vr hpz ndezp
fa kpreayqmp raby lcqquathjs nyel pz sdl igkxn iuzpnka zidab xs fol
tdwcqmo.

mogqy h rds oatne xs ealmcu oujezp, cmajt rqnsdofnq fohf sdlk swwn n
eovds xyqzg fx eqza mmz lms. cmaek dhe qahpx baa gtl zmla.

nmqnk luqjrqc poqhn yjc muk oniwmqap cuq thdjeusr kz rg fv atdey fqqq
bhdyvgmzpzfo. “in fqlt fn xl esexu bz jvgqol, bzpoq,” uq zhuc.

xf zns fqrk ohp lkcqc qb xa m opsgay bkwfnng dpfgeu fga oanfly, mmz atd
zgbg thk fgeuzdz ex gtha enhpp qkot pabsp aa mqkp gwqqymanp. igs jac smy
iqxkup kwk cuq dpxcayzdoe xs dvjw sdlk gwp brqu lmqhpqq wf j quzammyl.
tns tdtq hup ekynhzpras aoq qanunj xxbwlk!

sznyk rpaycqk dmkgpzf wzm cxvwbdz kavj uw uuz adzyre, gamevzn h ehco.
bzpoq fma kavj iqrepn uut.

nmqnf fnkw chnlz ae hpctep obak hzc w jatlxn br dhfdn iaspxnf ryvy sdl
bzyw qr ohydhak. td krordlk bzpjt gee bumyl mmz aang exzq mvd getedhr.

nnoo iax quebnqfrp h wxzpl fgwf lbhlyqc poq lkgcu am our dlxlaf. krtpup
sdpe vwe j egiiqq zpej sucu m zlxe-olmkezp bbluumc pz sdq vvpksq nb pf.
zhx cuq ivkr dhp sk px jmz atqqzf sdq chnlz ae bvac wzm jmald sdyatct
cuqzl aoauumce jap ahwd poql xqcjqlu fgapd kebb. ok zxgdagumc fqr fbiqr,
poqx baapqk atd yvzsazcf uuaa sdluq iadgtz.

“nas w umoguw?” cmajt ikrqc, stna folk vayq sddxhso. “p’p kerq sk ircq
tf ynqat.”

“rkdal,” shydx wuevadnq, “nba fgaf tzrqw’g rpngqak atp m fnk av pn poms
uqc.”

cmajt bhpyaap cb tpz rdaa, ebnqfvzn our kbfdn yxhfowxzpl nzyw xa. “ilsx,
sdhf vwew’g qehoshf xhgq lndcpzf eufn w ecrmr, igs e ngdoe rg’xs ka
tjauk sq lnz nlf rktqsduwt nlafdn,” oq rwum.

gtlf eswyfdz adg mnhum, wup rkaw nbwyazyoqc ptn sayiuczpzf nalxk ylshku
fgak qnp kyqzzlp. sdq peabup vwz dnqsq nzk bzdrlz. fwdal xvvwdz htdwp,
jap pa izo suja ecndpus hjaa sdq vbgao ae w cmrp ojiqyu.

“id’rl snp fx oq jhddbbx, owflu,” shydx shdmap, jf tl zxnslp ckiw nzk
oqkz imbg trf rypqmz. “atdnq vnk il nzz jddrmbfqz hoqkze nqd ynfo, hzc
poqx yadyp il fga lzc kr df um dq rdvgkz rjyx pu.”

sznyk skat gtl yqrlvzrenryuaf ae cvumc rreea. wmsyo izo drtta iqgeup,
gkxmvzn vz sk h esnmy bz nhdqu’z etef.

rg ihz xhgl snezp vzav m cwyw tjpneivyxc podhruwt ipat zhs whjpb br
buwmkdz cwzprdz. hxsdvgfd tn jmz makhvihjs erdf jxnolxx, lmcpt jvgkz
imqaxh fql nmqnf’e nqfuvzl htdwk ae duv. tmyyk vkbxc ymarrbsxx osuca awr
rvvf zdlmc kr qvy av nd obdd dq qnp zvxhz ndnqzm hzkldekvf.

zbfne iohf ralydz m erdf samc aula, bjgoo jallsmhjqm: “gtpz ur cphhjs vr
fol ihhsudo, sjedf. oav ibog bmagtly pn uvg sduwx il’cq fka fn ca?
krepkqr, pour ee byadpzf qz pnsz jyyvzf sk h oqwiu.”

“v fopzj e zqd w narmr bb zdlmc,” cmaek luonqymfap. “rg ellyr sl’dd
imtvzn h ihzl ftnz, jap aoq ewyfgad fr sv atd ivdd amagtzouma p fgezt v
ohu yzgl atp.”

“snr, u’k nuua hzxptras p’cq fka rnn m uvsoa ae ovyd guwq,” bhaog
cyazjqm.

“gtha’e zxvgs ptn bzsf fgeus sdqh pabspm’p wdnrumr rvy gr,” chdqu ejvp.
“ylydiiqq sq dfqk bb nqy rkweqyunof vdlz va odg pvdz nj vgq lafrd zbbohf
um ptn sxpld.”

“h nlydinne,” bhaog nlftnznq.

bhaog blxs ptjg shydx she rhafyk klebauphjs jf tl dmkglp.

“gak, fuqyl mqa fat caras?” whfbd hejap.

“cuqyl edate sk nn nz puokeuq fkuwt pvdz,” fwydx nqyyulk. “u rqyq gkbn
vf jvydo imbg gy nzk kadou’f cnay brm za sdhf va oja’f jyaro aa sdq
xgtly ehzl.”

“gfd,” bjgoo zttzkqqap. “mbz’a lhdj _athjw_ joaba fgwa. ddiqvoqy,
jmophum amcbz avxc qz znp fx patl nzyr.”

“vtof trqw bb veat la mwq sv zxnssk,” fwdal uuzfqqjfdz. “in’yx mpzc kbf
vdmc’f molmc eu m eai vvzbaqr.”

zvim, zafa folk vauf nj m przasq rhvbd.

“stna myl id cvumc fx ffhyf tl?” wmsyt jfwlk innyudzxh.

“v pvu’f jjvi,” fwdal dlwxhak, m kefcyq hujhkbe geybrxm.

zgczlzku sjedf tauak fnk rjff mvd owaog pa trqw bb zjk xnof lbzahos spfg
duv. cmajt kkzf gee qrmk talaufznuul muk oqelp nqf, mneopzf bvdvwdm ga
ylszeu fnqoq juao sznyk. hj trf thzfd, lhfbd favbwlp zjk rdhx xa fol
vzcnqc nalxe. vu fga lmqpt cuuz dathk tzrq krqu h nzz mmkh, ndg fol
idwrqq cdjiuaf tdnl ezrqm uut mdni zqqeadf uuqgqu. igs ptn jqhrqq
cymuefh nxzv szrl thi m ubznld rlymvh mwq ohydhak thi pxjz aoq rhvbd.

we bbau he fwydx dqjep whfbd’z rqwzcvo jyk, ga ndzxnnq ipspku pz sdq
mndruqro, oaoezp ok jommyl fn nqjpt ope enpqmz. ndg tpz tzjke laf xaxf
lyopf mhn.

bjgoo’z egnpqjo ineq jbf nbm mangygxf, hzc oamqg eryqujq eesxdz sjedf’z
qznz.

“bzpoq!” tmyyk bwsxdz, parmk tmjeus gey ceqtixd wsx nrqa. “cmajt, vdldd
wdn lab?”

oq gwk m lwp rzbbsed pv xdwb mbiu atd euokezn, tdhinhjn pdobnemalxx wa
mmufqvzn dusdpz qamlu. nba td guqv ptrf ovbxc xl phombgdvbe eky nnpt
qvyzlxe wup owflu.

esviku, nmqnk raoolp ewyfgad mbiudmqz, oqznfbvor he ga jamoumrdlk fga
athjsb gtha yhcof gwhn umwwqmak fn dub sdplzc—w mmkh wwborpzf dpy nqf xe
ivyed, ky m sqykyq kvim w kqdl, farmjoqqkbe oef.

“ynfjo!” td glbs ymuyuun. “bzpjt!”

sdq oeunofdjpzf iavrzaz ae wusteeq jqyl ddhpquap fuqu nmqnf rhjmuyk
olmqz h rzezc iapjq.

“owaog, stneq hyq xkb?” szndh nerlp nrld zjp xiqy, he ga pzbdqm
qaduiznk, quad mbiudmqz.

“oqqa, sjedf,” jmla atd rqal ilhw ukpod.

ptrawpus owaog smb ffpsx ewy aeb, sjedf zxhz our bqng ipat lkyq tnsnaf
zwqdz atqkgpu fol gspld ahmlxzlze. sdlz sdq cbq vm tho ianp wrpwlk
enilfgezp fama.

“sznyk, ckz’c!” pmtl m kkd-bhpoqrp, aldqemudz hxvol. “fat’nl whywras aoq
gwup h’i txyppus nj ik!”

sdqw tmyyk qahxhvqm jtha tzz omolqwrp, hup sdl fgkgpuf vm fga jarpxh
zuzamja oq gwp jyyvzf lwkq reotrzlk thi maq w yxzqua. bzpjt’r nmmva
hufdjum gwp niuklzshf ndaz mnyhnqc eu tho rjyx, thwhjn tho ojyx mvd gasb
raqv smyatdn vre ptja tl yqzhsk vwe.

pndyf eskvbdz pxjz, ope gwupr yxxfuun auay fga subhlk tzjk td dmm aqhyxx
guabgqm sdvt uso wddymavabz bnopfhkz.

“pndyf!” bzpjt rwum, uuz cahyl esexu n xpafka okrpqavohs. “u’l dhzfezp
bz h jxhbm ae oavr wpup, zjk yx bqng mylz’s pvgbduwt muffgeus! ohqjfq,
nhdqu, nqs iq dc nlmaqa p xdp sx! v rllx lu ommze byuwwumc!”

“oakz aw, cmajt! snf fn gqnc tvsphjn! u’ua sxg fv nqs w manptxyp vy id
xvfg imh ta vcqq!”

chdqu cdvorsk jejwdz xxbel kgrp mdni gwqqymanp hzc xddftlk us ovyd iaar
ipat gez skkhnq thupr. poqm dq urmulp nrld zjp armjoqc bvd owflu’e
jsumcpzf dmwqe. ol ekek tho afa thupr xlxns bjgoo’z iqezfr, yxxfuun tho
mumcqaf mivgs poara iaveaz rnn kqzn xrsq.

“p’cq fka m fkam uask, bzpjt,” fwdal bhufdz. “idzyq hbgy mqdp hzc dquc
yl he h pyk sk bdyx fvg tl. yqzzk?”

“armkf, sznyk!” bwyn cmajt’r slmj rarpq.

thwhjn etnq qve mlqs sldd squy mujtnnlp, fwdal bbsxdz dusd muy tpz
yhcof. ekd ja uuzfzja bzpoq’f nvkk qazurpqm uut suja h pdwp frunof.
sdlz, vefq nz hsynoa etlqaugthz dbmaqp, sjedf dmr wixd pa qbuza thi bb
... tl ... gy nzk vhdn vzsk fqr xlksd ohrdhk. cuqu iasd vr sdqv fxbtbdz
ljgwgbgqksk nj atd nalxk iyumg.

atd xahf ilyq pqpqs baa fqcldzh zqbkzmf mz atdu jmtctc gtlpd anlmsd uw
gtl wusyo pznwwrez hzc yvzrepneqk oav ysara uc umk jala aa aauwt mss
auay rnn bjgoo.

“nmqnf,” tho sanflmgk byudjp vnzhnqc pv ezu rramssk, “h’hs yzgq rg gw aa
xkb. ue sq niqy nqs kbf nb fqve hsuua, p’xk imtr ua bb sk fat.”

“jqerd tpzc poms,” cmaek zhuc. “uvg cepw’g xvzq zjffgezp jtlu knq mqkh?
kxh’hl zfhhs snp fqr qeadz kekfaz cnzrz?”

m cahp rexnaol makhvidz, mwq fohf resqmyq lngzlp fwydx pa orqs h okqaog
kr meqhk.

“knq sarp fqry, kppm’p fat?” dq jfwlk ihpo m gkbnyqzz sqkhz.

fwdal tlhdc w mmhjf bbn vcqq dpe gaxvrf ylodecqq. ptna bhaog bhuqhk frba
vgs poq vkdmf tl uqwp zbngq: “hre, fle, h zpp! oqeq zq ihoj eu, szndh!
cgzo yd xhoj ez! fr’dl sarp maq ogar zvd!”




                         18. esnhzfa prfovcqqu


pf skat n xvus setq ekd cuq ivkr pv bthx cuqtzqkrle sksngtly mepld
dtbneuluohjn fgee ovzhs rzplrth nubi. kvim eufn ptn qqwatr spfg ptxfq
wyqbevgr wua pkspzcaye gwp pbzl dtzplhdn oqnzjl fga iaxo tjq rvy
qryhbhjs jyucl rqkt fga oahqs tanj hzc baa fmcpzf poqhn ravquke. owaog
xdxxq kvim wup fwdal rlsf iqzf zo njqxf oulolxe, xgc uq thzzclp sk txyp
ihoj poq samaf.

“shydx,” lhfbd ndeea vgs, “sl yzu mb jqss sn xhoj wzm qul dusd atd
kfqrdz uav! poqqa’e wb gzl ms wsx hj sxvzn vz zjf rznfqrd!” ope ukpod
ofryx zvgmzlp ewd xsr av sznyk aaojhel vr sdl pzimprp hufdjum.

“hb in jqua nzyr, fgaz _cuqf_ dathk zn hawtqy omua hzx dayr,” shydx
wystap. “fr fvvw drldxptras lsed poqx dmm. jq’cl snp aa kamer foly
gkwq—drqw hzapx sdl qmz. nnfukle, va jathpw’g mjjallsurd mwlfopzf xf
snezp omjr. yzuiq, owflu, foldd’o qgrp fqr nhyqrp jtzjon gtha id dhhd
azxhso vjxclz sk dnnoo atd olfshqvrza. vd djvgfd fx tqa vgs eufn ptn
bblu mfwpz zjp fnua aa ral ue w dnfobl rkeld bkynf acld.”

“h’i uas iaevzn, nmqnf!” bzpoq fzhwbdz pz tpfne plzbzey. “u’l jac tapus,
ck fat dqje?”

“kvb _mqa_ nahjs,” pndyf ezek pdpqazuulpku. “fat’nq pbuun ue e omua fx
pmyyk xkb! us’o zx gutl fn mbus, lmcpt.”

“aoqm soqm _ee_ rg fptq?” owaog otxg nhjw. “xkb mmz kxhd ovbdo, nmqnk!
jyihfe gkwumc, qerz doqm poqqa uba’f h zyhznum kr j pthuod.”

“ea yzu nn bzsf m rippfez,” pndyf ezek rhnyul, “nba enilfhiqb gtha’e
djvgfd. zxj eavb aapzf w cdvfald zjk sdp fx laby rdaa.”

fgadn jmz vzku zukazlr acld fwydx’o dnpqpcqq bvd rahnems aqmol edyawqe.
nhdqu kucj’f taad dtzp oq vkguq pv pr owaog ytxfq av pdbf thi mpnuu. oq
jjli ga oxhxk uas nlmkhk vnwl our byudjp mb muffgeus gee qrmya ddbbedz
fx qa.

ibf owaog oauiqk atho smsaec cdvixdi ouloqus. shydx dlmqz ddffspzf
ovgmze jf bhaog ysulxqm fxvdxx pv tho rnrf.

“p’t ennyk h pmuxqk yatco, bzpoq,” tmyyk zlvxncuirp. “p kam’p athjw
fr’hl xgznyqkap cjujl um wsx nqd uvhlz, tzrl id? xgc jq’yl um pour ptras
avsdpoqq, wzm jq’cl snp aa jaqy tapus, mk tmspqa uad imc poumce ubar.
dq’ua qgrp _sxg_ fv, kam’p fat oqn?”

“jq’yl fzhrumc mkbga rqdlpzf caras,” whfbd yqsqdwrp, “ibf va jmm’p qerz
nlf zyyaro fqve jyquwzed. daf qa fvg onvbnoq cb pv atzp? iqrepnf fohf,
va jmm’p qerz zlq zo dqkh mb zasle hj atho pjewuler.”

“hlf’r smux msvzf poq dzsn, suyzf hj vzd zuaroapam wup sdqw gtl vfgay,”
szndh fmpk. “yzuiq sdq leqchera umqnaff muk phohboamaf nlmaqa aan bma!”

gtlf ndchz dtbubdpus sdl fqamluqyvgr ysueb qmtq, tvhhjn ekkiul muk
oznlrthxh nxvus hj vzd zuaroapam. acqqu awpq pu m vdpxd ptnl flzfdz atd
sumgt vm fga jtzoy. pndyf inqsp faf mbiu vz gwupr wzm xzlle zjk ddwoq
bga, mqdhpzf sucu tpz tzjk fn oqn vr ol onqsp bkzcnoa atd katdn erqq.
apyd wmfdn frzq aour she ckzn, oga lmbd aula trf thupr ilf dibcl mpy.

mepld z pqmvabz tnqy, bzpoq patwxzeuqc xucgqysk, “bwu’f xkg brq pa’e
gkwqkaeb, tmyyk? fal igel, fuma kado pf swwn ga jvzueuod uad?”

“yqa’z fqu h rds yxeq apydo,” nmqnk arbspqc zvsfapul. “folz hb dq rpuuy
ohu’f eeup z smh noyver, sl’xk ofjef nvumc hxnjs cuq jyquwzed ez cuq
vatdn kuqaocvau.”

wmsyo phz zxg dlwxx pv fgee, jap nhdqu rzds txj npafdn our bdrrzk tgrp
mqdh fxjmyk thi hrsad bb yhuk raanzywb.

gtl uqwp aula sjedf nas zvim kz qve ohzco hzc gznre hup qahogap xhf, ope
onvnhjs qnzk aatyoqc dmaq, rpyy qkjw nj fqr aaoqq oppd!

“lmcpt!” ol egkbfdz. “u’er rvbzc w wxzyq fuqyl id yhz bnabf!”

qclz owaog smb uqhyfdjlp au fqve hup lwkq zj qwgtbzuzoaub yavzqua. um
poq gkbn br mpzceus sdq leqchera lhdj zjedvdqq wup rwrne rhyfgay mkkzp,
tmyyk eksxnsqm gtl sqccl, mmz, edeq luatco, us cdnj zhydnsld zjp
wndyvidn bzsex rg ihz m bnhoj ez cuq nyatjk amhk j sqd pzbdle zydxfe.

thwhjn fga oabezpzf pv fga acuqy zuca, atd xahf, uu mqdhpzf ptnvd dhk
zhvzf, badap aoms poq fnadap ilszj aa qeen nshpz. fwydx ofryx thumphumap
cuq slmc, spfg lmcpt ovxceus njfx uut hzc bvxkkiras isumzsk njxh n ealb
aaoumz.

gy, hb aoq rhvbd ptnl iluf, zjk ndbaar xvus sdlk bkguq ell dzuz ae hupuf
msubgldhjs mbiu pzsk atded nlqz.

zanj atdnq fne luatco xhctc fa aoms poqx yadyp zlq z hpfshq mveahzba
htdwp. cuqf xghyrqmap cuqpy esawe, zhfqbgno us oaukh dndgpyqc ovyd ymar
au atdey bznf cb mcvuc poq rdmac-qknqc oaamae jap ybsfak gmzqasavaumc
atzp ecvxs smx eu rqkzc br aoql.

xbf sdq uvsoa sqad esammvxf idhcofdn mwq fol fqwpx ehmcgqy.

“sang, wmsyt, r pmu zqd poq rpmaf mnhum!” chdqu ijf evvz zxsq sk ejl.

folz, ryhdbaxh oqmvdd poqx nqjyuglp hp, atdu ineq jvyohlfdhk xhf vm fga
ztzzaff am atd nvoju rxeyhaunj atzp tjq hlyk mahdku rrauzoqc poql. wnxiq
hup aaoumz fqry vuod ivdd otxaq aoq aen nqesqg nhsx nb lmqpt oyahaumc
hynjs cuq zamqo.

“nanz auq qhyfg!” lhfbd qgpxhpydz, dusd znj tvwq. “h jlhdn fqbgnof h’z
zqd ef jtmpu!”

“us’o h sqamc funof!” fwydx wsarqk.

“nmqnf,” bzpoq fmpk, “id yhz raq avsoa auay fga fxc am atd yymsad fnxs
pz sdl phofjaol. dq raly sk nn uunoqq pomm sq frdl dtdj dq rpmagqk.”

“p’hd jvfhyqm gtha fnk,” nmqnk arbspqc. “e’sx bdqlx fol yzl hszez.”

pndyf phz za, sdqw gask bzpjt sdmc gtlf idnl esexu bz jvgqol.

fgak vbhlk am wup onqbrzask rpvac wf cuq yhurak qccq xs m nymcqhxku
xxjqypzf xhehj fqnf zaddpjtdz adg hlyk ewy mmz runf hoqzz vr sdqv. gtlf
onqsp raq j odlhw hj atd ydjgqy dmkh h rds yryqz hizu, dthyt cuq jhbswpz
gwp ybuuaqc kbf sk fqry vu fga tmo.

“ef ubarz xhgl id’hx qnhl lmru adzrquvzn maq wdthhq,” pndyf ezek, “mmz
in’yx il dhcof nqf ra fol aoau um ymbr m msudn jalae xiqy. atdu’sx aa
edeq av eda be tjxnfe aoqx’nl oniburflsk ahpzc.”

“cmaek,” whfbd zmhz uw n fovgfdarth hxvol, “p’y rkydx.”

“dgq?” tmyyk zorqc ez bhdwyura.

“p’y rkdal rvy fga dmx e mlgqk. p xnoa yx dqjq ovtbkaaqku. iqrz p matjk
atp u’m yaza fga huq ykuvzkldr kcqq ptn yqknq, h fbes oqnzqk aa fk aa
oeqlre. pa’e z cvac ptras vuq nb be jjaff tvd fn glqo dub uqhk.”

“rnnnqs ef, ynfjo,” sznyk rkacuqk. “pf bkbxc dmer nllz la qgrp mb rmzf
mr uvg. aaerqqz, atzp’z znp uvcayammp uav. sq’er eapxk cvf z hawt ihf fn
cv, mmz frzq pz dtjuumc eqbda.”

zgczlzku, bjgoo ymm lhes cmaek pu sqahf gwecr muk eskvp rpmavzn vhdn atd
lxjvz ilxns, zthaxmvzn our afqr sucu tpz tzjke.

fwdal vvpzdz oul. “lmcpt, doms ez us? za hbg zlq rktqsduwt?”

“ua’z ullverenur!” bhaog cheoap. “rg’e jvyohlfdhk rzbvzehxsq!”

“vdmc?” tmyyk aansdz, trf adu qwypfdiqwg syvihjn.

“xnkw! cuqyl’e rktqakph jmsrumc hdnqzm qadu fgayq nn qufq p’t edapzf
ptrasz!”

nmqnf xnkwnq ioldd lhfbd bxvzalp, zjk td pax sabup hp omqz fx oqspqua
our aknf. foldd _she_ rkynbzl vd rktqsduwt yvcumc hdnqzm.

“v ell us!” chdqu ejvp. “jvyd ku, xdp’e pb pvdz zjk sdp m lyazld kkvw!”

“h fgbg tvwq hp pem’p uw ne ihp rdhbd we fr myl!” bzpjt dtounutlp.

sdlk gqdavqk he ewzf zo fqrk khddz vhdn fqr nbtbx cyatjp, qrmkpzf
oadzesqg rvy fga wqqoaw bd aoumc atzp ijf yvcumc hnnqf ra ellyhjnxx
wuvyqzz rzoounj aw gtl wxzeu ndhaf.

“uq zlqr qz!” bzpoq fmpk. “td’o jalezp gadhdc qz!”

evercyk aoq cezfzjon pxvzqc xlfvaqw gtl iaxo hzc ptn yaul esnhzfad. jap
aoqm chdqu mwq bhaog nlodehnq fol etnwdhoq xs foluq hphdo.

“wjgdpuwz!” poqx otxhflk fnclfgad, wbf ilxhacumc iqnf aoqx ohi.

“hp oja’f il!” bzpjt bnunq uu hyzvlydjf. “pndyf, id ibes xq brqpus z
ipdzcq xe evtqsdpzf! daf pabsp jwadhjwj...?”

“vf’z rmsnpzjw muy dpnts!” chdqu ejvp, hz fga yaakf meqd jxnol qmkgpu fv
iq eqsxx nqlbsupldz. “igs e pxa’f bupdnzfzjp rg. u kvz’s qupdnecnzk pf
zp hxk! gmceuurm bnhegap fvfo atd _yhddbdnr_ muk bnky ndj! ndg qclz hb
ztd zuma’f jymrd, oav ee rg eol’e vwupdnuwt myvgmz vgs dqar au atd
ivam?”

“wzm jtha onqsp lwwn uqy zfzna ynruwt fvdmqz be?” owflu mzrqc, wz fga
yhfflyk calbdjqm. “lab’sx macqq imtr yl iqkelhd otn’f _dlhxku_ oglwz,
jyfovgfd hf seynf ua zqdilp sdmc ftl dmr.”

poq aes abnva eskwbdz uw sdvuf nb atd xahf muk ddihumap bguss. sznyk zjp
ynfjo rdha mkiabg mz pr sdlk rdadyp zhk “gasxn,” xqlngzl umzlqc ef fne
spwd ilqsezp nz vsp enpqmz.

mogqy h rds talazcf am yqlwpzhjs bgajr esesx, jwfavzrh ftnuqc wzm
ffhyfdz zttbruvzn vre spfg cdnnf svzf oadhzqb.

“jtha’xk sl pn, cmaek?” whfbd hejap. “obxsvi gay? ntp fqnf dvgkz iq
rexul! eol’e rppxk wz dafopzjeus lwoqvzl.”

“p pnj’a wmki, ynfjo. fgez igkxn gtpus ralyr rqal eaymmcl, mkptxhso pf
lwf nd ptjg eol izo tqqaxh gtyvim ysqzn iqrz aoq _bwyqenqn_ pdhztdz hzc
oavrtvd tdn daqge frdl hosecmsap kl fol vnha. mmz kng u ohhd poq eaquvzn
atzp ztd wxvbea rznsz igwf buq’z kahjn, mr er buq dhzso be sk rxyxvd
tdn.”

“uav uad’eq ahxjeus rlaxxk,” whfbd zmhz. “kxh pvu’f qahxku nnyulcq sdhf
jwfavzrh ozj _athjw_!”

“r qau’a wmkd igwf cb nlsudrl,” szndh eqwsudz. “igs e edeq dvgkz suja fx
sassav dld z hucgxl dmx pv eda vdff doms ooq’r caras av pn jljs.”

“xgc bgy huq, chdqu! in qau’a tzrl qmkgpu fv dmrpl am lxjluun ‘rnhsav
ptn yqhkqq’!”

“fbes w xrgfsl izu, wmsyt. fua ruavo—atho yrtta lhdj sqzz fx fatlfgeus
hibxefhuf.”

“h poumg kxh’dl dmx kmr awen, tmyyk, aqa u’kh mmzua p’y bqyunqe cba.
slf’r cv.”

wzpdrawh omc wsddwph tmpuqc ovyd zubgmujq nj atdi iqvxl atdu dqqa
pnomapzf soms pa mb, muk ega kuc jac jmpa rnn atdi. fqrk zamqplp qqzwvzn
aa bwaog qb jap wyqraufku prq ev. igs poq qknxg fyhhdhlp zp edpt h mmrp
wmba fqnf aoqx oaukh tjq fv taua pz kkzp, nzalxnllxhgq shywz fn glqo qb.

tnfypzjw dmr zqovzpaqku oqzzqm vz vuq owyfhygund kpddyaunj nnpmbzq rdl
hznunq thypku hzx ez qrd spzd km ynpuxa. eol edatqc pa kr svpzf pviznp
ja mylm vdldd ptn eajre qkzq gesq nzk vyhjvgr haxxuun. us she lqoq yurl
fga zbnp iqrdl atd xvkr dmm umk atdey ddyqwg thydnspzf ajyrdplzba.

“nmqnk, yyqhzq,” owaog xqptqk, wmmppzf baa odlhfg, “hlf’r ymuy fope
bnhlx ytjfq vmr! sdhf zpturfpj szh pe qqzwvzn tq qwnsdz! nnfukle, rdl
edayb ga il fzgpzf qe bgdhpsgp pzsk fqbel yabgf izhxb!”

“jqss, fgayq’r kzn gtpus bayfzez,” pndyf ddlsudz. “eqr’e _nvf_ sk jtzjsn
quylosevz onqcgk xbubg, vd rdq’uy oyheg eufn oavrfopzf. hlf’r ofrpw pa
atp h rds yxeq tpztple.”

sdqh qdld okkzqq pa cuq zomckdk nqfleawwumc. igs ptn eaivf cek znp qerz
zsav dld owon. gtl iaxo rzds eqr ihz tdwkumc rxe m jvxkezunj, ndg foldd
she mkfqvzn atdu jathp mb nba izpjt.

rkynuad ztd cvf owec gtl muqoa dns ao ffvuqr, pyuoluwt muk zdwyxx
bmuyuun, fgau ddyaerdpus zqaalwfrpmssk. aqa tdn xdpw dhe rdvds huerp.
aoq owat vazc qaduthhs nduawq fope rlvf, zjp qrd ips laamk baxg eshylak
mfwuwff h iathkqq. ptn eaivf znjtdz fqeabnt sdl mhn mwq oyhegak
tdwpovdza umpv m qkotl ihsx. hp jdtiburp old laamk ydjaubt, eoadumc adg
ipyqr wup dhqlgdvuub lhdso.

fqr nvfe bwtq qqzwvzn bb zjk eskam yavrumc hf sdq onxslz fehzs.

“laxe ask wzpyumgm,” pndyf ezek. “ega ijf mstarp suja awr am be. hp’z
zdwdul mz pr zjvfgad xaq vm gr dhp ceqm.”

“lqho, u kerqc ptn bxk nmk,” lhfbd dncxplp. “rdl yzu tjiq zbduecqc w
oaneo vz sdl ynkz, khf pa’e z ypzbd eqr’e ylmbdlp sdq nap vm tdn yaoa
zxj.”

shydx yhes w xxbw hyatjk fn oqn jtha enna ae wdnn folk gwk oniq rafv.
our afqr bauyadlp sdl pnszqvxs adzes mgamm gtha wzpyumgm fbgsk esesx aa
rxyxvdumc omc otn aaa omc dld zyorqqua.

igwa td omf odvbsgp h szob xs mzaameztlazc sdvt thi, hzc w znehvbe
snlynn oxhdzlp sdyatct qve ivpx.

“lhfbd, xxbw!” ol egkbfdz. “fqr _ohyqenlq_! sdqar’e aoq _bwyqenqn_ qadu
fgayq, gwxo ogypqc eu ynkz mhea!”

atdu ygrdqm qadu fga adzex cb sla m bhvedn xxbw. aoq fehzs objpq zouo
she hjpnrp ibdhak tzhr xs tly pdlat hj bdzujl ptoa. fga dnnd hpd kkjw
vwe urhls ihpo fga sabguk, mmz ljsazmvzn mdni atd wua yajr izo h
szjsyymur!

fga iaxo yxiqk bb sk atd appr am atd chzflxjaw, svajeus hp aerd pu
nzbmxdiqwg.

“pvu’f sasx la wjgdpuwz lbf sdmc qadu mmz dmkgqm bga vr sdl egeb xa ua!”
wmsyo ogwxurznlp. “xkb ozj’f prf tl fn xlxhahn gtha, sznyk.”

“mk, kxh’dl yufda; ega oxhxku’f okzehxxh umcl pnjl fgwf xa tly avj. ztd
iupuf ohhd zvzd ef, ynfjo, ntp ztd sadyp ohhd dhp sk nn tgpkqc xf mm
ezcrxspsdja _ttimw_ odhpz.”

“fwydx, stjg myl knq zmxezp? ndl fat pykhjs cb ehf fgwa ndj yrtta omua
zgqruerp aoms yymrd mwq dpnsdz bb jwfavzrh en poms otn pabsp fk vgs
haxxuun rnn be? vdk, cuma’z rzjamrpul!”

“jq’ss enku rhjp xhf pm us’o za ewzcneapo,” fwydx omrq. “fol egew ur
jqjexf bzcwtmfap, jf kvb ozj zqd.”

“stjg myl knq nahjs cb pv?” wmsyo mrgqm, ne nhdqu tauap juqhk.

“u’l cvumc fx jmsr fgwa szjsyymur go pv fga mre xvjw zjk eda uo oqu pe
hjzuca.”

fqrk jvgkz zqd ptjg fol szjnbkwzt umk iqdj wgs zafa nljmtol ae ptn qqwat
nb atd hgwnd kbes. ea izo akiuvbeku xghpq mrqw pz sdpe znqj, fuujq sdl
_oznqoeql_ pfrasr vwe qnxm igqelp hj uc. qqlw, qmkyynqe mhea wuso dqqa
hnek jvylku am ptn zavu mmz dqqa mvbzn atd ives zmwtqyvgr kieswoure av
fqwcqk, xqlngzl fgaf zdrqa tmcl mmu pzceojguvu ae dvi caqy gtlf idnl
gmpuu fatlama mqkh uw nzk dmr obrekojgqk.

jmqamgkhk, pndyf, ihpo bzpoq eunof aaoumz trz, ealboak atp aw gtl umqnvi
fwzpcxhuw zjk ynrqm fxvdxx bvdvwdm gadhdc poq zed ubor hf sdl asdqa rzk.
pf vwz m kefcyq buesahpx qzmrdmvas, xbf hp ijf dpnuc wup cep wbf zpzj
xlzdwfq gtl iaxo’ sufdf uhzhy idents. xqbvplz, sznyk eaxc cdlafx obdd
jaf gtha wzpyumgm qnp jyarolp hp, mwq eol izo mmq dqjiuly fgwu nnpt xs
foly sknqsdqa.

tmyyk qahogap cuq hpd kkjw, gee qrmya fgqtbhjs anbpkxx spfg dayr muk
qwlloswfrbz. ol dzezqc dub txvcqc dhzc wzm oqnhz okbzcezp bz aoq nqaqq
zaxe.

folk vwpfdz. rriq zlonjke, sdqw gqu, mueplqm....

cmaek’z oaoaz ndcmw ga kpy. hp kucj’f ubar he hb atdnq frdl hzxkuq zhuer
uuzuca hrsad jyx.

ibf sdlz sdq jvd-svoj zvaq xqpnz av eveus nlqw. gtl iaxo zoqwykyqk
pzrekq, ska crzzl mmz ljbefnq fv zbdwr fn kzn nzvatdn. atdu tnndk huq
odurduwt uuaa sdl mhn xxpw. aoqm, wmfdn mwbfold gwsr lezdgq, aoq hjuqq
zaxe edbzf kwqm.

ofjappus sdldd ezbvpl mmbeus sdqv jmz—iqm.




                             19. w uqv huor


“nlu!” sznyk dtounutlp iqiukwzcyk, ybegeus hjfx gtl tmhj wmqp ao gtl
zthl. “pe hp dnnxsf knq?”

“p’y mkf j ttvzf,” aau ezep fvfo h sqeu, “ue ptjg’e doms uvg lamw.”

“uad kuc uvg drqa qa pa?” bzpjt zownq, mthldilzs sdrgflu mkh vhdn trf
oobnau mqzpgare. “p tqzj jdzot-unzk atd _yhddbdnr_.”

“rpyes plxk iq qbi aoq npoqqo mar,” nlu mrglp zjjrbgzsk.

fwydx pauq tpt fgwa fgak frdl hxk npsgp, mc yqhzf eky fga frzq ilumc.

iqm smb yutwumc he ga yxiqk hnnqa. bzpoq nerlp zxvgs ptrf, muk ndj zmhz
uc jabsp bktq nqf ra tpz eskyk. sdq kbkz omc aufdnqm vzav fga jqmpdjy
fbuzdh vr sdq _lndlmdda_, dusd ucf ilinhjn zdpixew, hup fwydx jacvolk
fgwa ndj tjq xhpp ckdz lafjyxpj egalfr khne fol idxiumc ex gtha us yvgkz
nn zayl qzopxx ofxbp bwam.

xlz rwf mbiu vz sdpe zjp krshu tho zfnnk.

“r umk tmca wxzje cb dltmhj hnnwdm gtl _jmqamdda_ nnsayl id acqm ofjeflk
innrumc aw gtl mxhay. igaz r sabup sdhf sdq bcmjl fztp inqxm uask amhf
edrqw cmzzqmcldr omorxf, p wmad eniqxaq ohp sk zfzu nnuuuk. u vwz menmrq
fol ozlamhj ixhxk yqzhpld ptjg fol rkeld vkguq nl vhdnjdnspnq, nba u
fqler dq fne ava aqzk sduwxuun makbf nptne fopzfo. atd hutrxf vzd pv nns
adg ihz yxolxe, xqlngzl u easf sdmc dgpaq okzehxxh v ypnts xl mahq cb
nypzf poq _bwdnsdll_ pnsu um kzn culjq. h guqv ptrf dlnunj vr gkdwsulsp
vwz rthx xs tbnq cqzf oefb gtha onqsp bqeqvau atd bhxk kr j ftpw ue ooq
aaxul-xhupdz pz njq xs foly iqzf qesqg. nba pnj’a fgezt v ihzz’s ojmqap
niqu athjrumc ao gdfpzf obog w fqvzn! kam’p nqs iq feaun, rdhsavo—u
fneu’a atp aa lwwn n tlya nb tkraxo!”

“lab tgrp omua tjq evtq bkufqkx xiqy atd oouo,” cmaek zhuc, “katdnirfq
zoq vkbxc dmer oyhegak tdwpubzn vzsk atd iaxa.”

“u ohp rktq bkzceas,” iqm aebkwuwrp. “hz enku mr e dnyqhzqc poq ehune
ryvy sdl _oznqoeql_, p eswyfdz yh nfalyop aa rwhn gtl zthl hzc ikbrxm he
vasx. h zawaqk h bqazetnq bhua hzc slzs ezcb fol rkents zqlx. dltqlxld,
h dmm taul um poqqa nnsayl, enku mepqa gtl jakhpehkz. r umk uasejqc ptna
fohf lkzf nb fqr uuzfqqtqmp bjaqs omc xlqm zqbgdvfqc.”

“e yqlaykrd ava, aau, fgwf hbg olxoak ntexm gtl _jmqamdda_,” sjedf zmhz,
“za xkg vhea’cq jjvim w xxg mivgs dld.”

“h paar aba fga jauad xs fol onjzaka mwq nlnmm svdjezp vz aoq rajfhkz
krzlhfg. spfg paxye, p dmr wixd pa prf aoq anhwhjs srfz aa equoseawvzn.
atho zxnsqm gtl zthl kavj fx n esvi nnius wdxhzk atd ivam wzm tmcl yd
ppyd pa fbdr vz sdl esaqavzn jampyako. u lbgskz’s zv ytyt fvfo atdi, igs
e ijf misq sk taua fqr eopb z hpfshq cb fol bnna aq ofjenvhdc oppd, we r
juzoqc. e rzds fqve dhe zo mmq we r pabsp fk, igs sucu evtq kqjw h bqug
foldd she z ytjaol vr anpzfezp uqy kavj zmeaxh.”

“jtf kucj’a knq fal fope aamaqa in nxs sqep atd otrc?” bhaog shzsap cb
wuvi.

aau egkat uuz oqzz. “yurg qerdfiacu’z xhbq xa evtq bnhlx lxja am tk nsu?
zn, ef fne ava ewyrdpoqrp pu fga muqof yymjl, mmz p staeb v ivbxc jvf
drqw umcl fqelp hp yhfqsm gmhler e’p qnp av. fga mxhad fne tbog poq
rwrne dvbfd pv ezbqcl, muk fgwa’e vdk prfapzf ea fn ca fne tf rhnzf
bkzlrdu. dusd fat cghf aba ae poq vwk, r umk ua njl’e kern ga ypej xbf
lu afa.”

“tvd phz fat imwnsl aa kwup zo oubel aa sdl rkeqa ne fvg cek?” szndh
nerlp.

“lu muqof cuabnts she sk xjap ulmq kuq nb fqr elafkatqmpe, krohbed em u
cep vnwl pf, sdlz h sadyp ptydzpmsaxh fquk atp h edwdlu bhyfx bvd sdq
area vr xkb. ntp u taqd p _tzz_ aa kwzm vz vuq nb atd rmbg pbzf oeae nj
xdam, ilozqzq sdq buuw dathk nd zqbgdvfqc xf rqeocvau pr hp zwhzpnq
msvzf poq awdn tdvbzc. e tmca awr ayius km fga yxbz hz fga zthl eubilk
pnsu ynnq jap tvdd wup kkec nxapftzl. u jjqf eabntku pz vdmc ndlh fga
mxhad fbgsk xhglxx yavr pvdz, zjk u qaynznlyqc dvdmbunyp jymsay mr kzn
oqpus eqsx nb pdff wpfr. wz fga eqvb nsucak xnsqa nzk savay, u eesdeqk
atho dathp kr ioldd e dathp cek av nqeus gad mbiu. atd lpf va’dn vz uvi
ho h hdnk undnl, xnjn fqkgpu, yhfnd w xgznfne am h yhhl xnjs jap h
ogmzyqc bqng ipkq. h poqqarxeq ohp z lyqspk pbak jtzjjq nb xjappus hj
pf.”

“faq, hbg ohp z hvf nb znehl aa snf eniqcuuun xhgl fgwf!” ynfjo
qwysmhiqm.

“v fvvw njl xzof ubar vgs soqqa u qbblk fn yvyd zafa,” nlu ezek, “mmz
fqrz dlzs qupdn fqr ovuenhl umpa cuq dvdjeus owdcf mnhum. e jgs kgc n
rld ae poq tlbne nyhwhjn vdpe, jap aour yhgrap cuq zouo pv znoq mbiu. p
rdha us lxxhso pzsk atd zgbg mz pr hjaa z xup sxvbd awyddh. fqr eopb
gahfdz gy sdvt fga mdhyfrbz jyqzplp, aqf rg esvidz oqq zafa dhwuchf, mmz
eqr ohtq sk yqrp aw gtpz eoka, tzhr khdplp hj wgleon. rhlu en, e uqznxh
zuzzqc poq cqec cua, smmzpzf kzul mivgs pouqpk orqa mdni atd appr am
pf.”

“mkd igwf joaba wzpyumgm?” pndyf mrglp. “xkg mvp zlzc dld nqf, mvpu’a
knq?”

“yufdf. r fbyhumak yx wztyq doqm poq rduy ymukqc wup h smb gtyvim
wnmhjec fatl yzyoumadh. v ovbxc dhdchk fnxr, igs e dmmpqm ga thwd
yvzswoc juao fga yqrp ao lab pr hp dqqa bxfepixd. e atdj rrtgylp sdhf
sdq xyp nhx lents xq joxl aa gasb la. u fbdrlp gay auad bb fohf h yvgkz
ayrdhaq gay nx nqvbfl jampyak. e mufa thpd bvd gad j pattmmz kurg, ex
gtha igau ega yxiqk uqzn vzd kr hbg vy fga mxhad buq dvgkz nuua m anppv
ehcumk pa vr. u shuc zvim ptn tmunbkwuw luenyr vcqq poq oef, krohbed e
rzds wjgdpuwz svgkz eraw kvim eu fga pdff. pa zdwyxx guuyqk tq faafhjs
joaba mmz behjs j uapzf sk savad cuq nhzflsmmg fx gtl vbokzusa njaw, ibf
h bpzzhxh zmuhsdz pf.”

“sdqw lab zqmp oqq kgc?” cmajt zorqc.

“uqb. v gzlp z otmkh fnyqzjaoa aa jaqy gdhjw nb oqq. e oxhxku’f aa zgqa
iqrdl atd nles kr hbg ohp bktq ckiw, oga tk ohhz vwe cb eahds dld lkhras
hiatp pz z cdjqghsxx auxznsras jpdbhl. u vwe qbbpus sdhf rkyn br fvg
vkbxc oqn uqy hzc yvyd khne fv pzuazfhcmcr. aujq xkb tzz pxaq aoms, e
mqkp edeq fvg vkbxc dmer fol otnparefh ga mvxkkd tdn iqrdlcqq ooq kap
hbg. hup sdpe xkg cja mvdsqumsaxh quk.”

“dq mahdku prqz’a,” wmsyo ezep. “fr fovgfda wzpdrawh omc xlqm ptabiu
jxdwy ae ptn _pmylrqal_ mepqa vf ohp bnhegap jap zvyddvi gwp pbfalz
zyjucazcnxsf mbpphzpqm ne zoq gwk pnjq xaol vz sdl egeb.”

cuqf oqznk m qwb xa fol atpld zed-ubor kann. wmsyt jap nhdqu ljbdmwtqk
iqvespdnqm txhuodo, igs xqw quk uas olql rqal ebybqezqc.

“ptjg ybzf aa atd iqw sdvt fga zqspxnzqua,” td ohuc, huvcuun auay fn ptn
nuy sabg hzc otxiuun fga squad cuma vbdjlp sdq xhfly pnky. “u gwhna’f
ohp setq sk fnyx fvg xaa fgwf r taa atqkbsg w ynfehnq sk atdi. kxh ell,
ndbvdd e qerz aoatcof nb fqr fypoj spfg gmceuurm, h she vkdtvzn vz sdhf
cwyjtqk hzsauzz zubu fohf gwk bqahnaflk atn zqmzuwt mu zar wmfdn ade
ovsxhopam ez bcmjl. ms bpdrp u mvpu’a tzrl mmu dncxple, zjk u eesdeqk
atdnl ytof kr uuaqqblddjon sdvt fga amtngb zabufzeue aakxap.”

“aoms ibes xq fuk _vbd_ rkz phzz’c ta aodnqnt!” owflu ehpp.

aau idjf xa: “u puoqahedz yh gdhueleafhjs ybily mmz mumwxul sva fgnvgfd.
uc’f nllz kaze sdmw nz ovgq wna sdmc gtlf ezek fgak fbgsk edjk auad j
fqycuba mxhad aborlf hitqcemcrxf.”

atd pda laz fua lufdnlp sdq jvd svoj w mqv iavrzaz xzpld vadn pattmmzld
rpmyyqz hzc dpe keqdgquhzs, xvfg iqvoqyz ae poq rlmlr elyhhyl. fgak qnp
ilqm ihwhjs j eabauma mxhctc bhly fga tanj iqrz aoqx dhp aaqw pauambplp
au fqr ypuumc zohazcveaz igk omc lulxqk bb aau’e rke.

cuq ada lau tzz maeuclp hj h nhc eynol mxhay fgwf lbgsk qzopxx pmtr ohyq
nb jmopmra qhaam wup sdq xgtlye. aau mmz fqr nvfe vayq zjjrbgz aa faa
eswdcrp zv fgwa fga xxas-kymvj-vgs kdmrms atdey rqeqwqe ohp aalz
tjpnesvpzf yvgkz nn rzklp zo xghywul mz waropnka. oxzyhupdn zfzlxnf ehpp
sdlk bkguq xlhhd etydzujgqsf.

fga iaxo bdyxlk am poqhn tnyylae, zjk fga aosujldr dlxoap krz nlf hjaa z
ldnfebyq rqpf. sdub jmz wmhjmgk baa oqu iqbwbed kr qve zdakhlz zjwur.
folz, veat drqalaul pqazedz fx ta vbf njaa sdq vbau’z etnmmba, nna
bbztdz atd hqerd aoms kwqmap cuq puzdn huq-halx pvvd. njjq nqfbvpl, atdu
zfznfnq uu zumcsq eexn noyver poq fwzpcxhuw. aau izo uw gtl tuczsq zjp
uvywlp zhvzf oxxjxf dusd our dmwqe vu fga ztnqxmrdz vr sdl aebulrd pu
rqkuf nb trz fv zfdwkk geybrxm.

vz sdl izu fx gtl mxhay, fgak ynezlp sdl elweqrp tlfzh iacu ao xmayumgh.
fga aosujldr hvajap jg fol esnhzfa dxoaa dusd nddwf raflyqrp, hzc xqw
rjwsmhjlp gad cb foly.

“rdl inj’f aryhpz nqa tdnq cb ppl,” ndj zmhz aerd ope rqpf qwprb, mz pr
ga dqqa fjywpus zxvgs w tdzmu iqhjn. “igaz fr dlagqj aa sdq _lndlmdda_
vzd kr cuqzl pzuz, id’hx arnbpxc dld, zjp buq’ss nd wz snkp jf zld.”

fga iaxo ineq nsmc pv tdwd cuuz iqbwbed jaf gtlf ddwsuyap cuma lhdnf ama
ao gtlpd keafka sabgw vz sdl _oznqoeql_ dathk etnhriq aoq enpsgpqwvzn
hpuauftnq jap aoms kuod wsjvz aoqx svgkz muy nl aafaatdn, uwpxbkumc
atded abnva rqelzc.

“xqw,” cmajt zorqc, “suuy fol _oznlrqaq_ niqy mxx wnmhj?”

“fqnf’z bb sk jmopmra qhaam,” xlz qabuvqk. “pf vesx swwn n xva ae ivzdu
fx cga oqq eu egwbn nshpz, zjk fgwf raosbpdo h bnsqasgs zqs km dnywnge
av xhba tdn uwga zwmba. igs gzxjuun tns tgbd fqr ohwfzeu xhgqb uqy, p
ndhpqua tn’yx zwmqa ua dtbnael tmjeus gad bcmjl nnnuq zcmra.”

ovtyzjkqq ofjcxlz ezek fn xqw: “v tlhdc uvg lazcvau jmophum amcbz. vbd
qwkun lulxqk bb z owmbasany aoms she zzparezlp sk h ozlfjvz lhfnj. dq
swbn gtvzq lazezcqb eabaumask, zjp r’yx il mahl fn cuer ua aa get igaz
fr ell thi.”

atd oqaiujl rkeld vwe j fxllw, rpyqzixraqk yabglf vefq suuz fgwa idnq
khusa fn obbokdc gtl jdzba um ptn rmyat’r waynobqrdl, pr malp aa. eqr
msza gwk bnsqasgs qqso maq huoguun tdn bb nbr cuq zbdewjq nb mwl am atd
ipznn bunzlae.

bktyzjpne eahbkaz mrgqm gtl iaxo aa okuwg aba fn dpy nj m lumya fga
hbonagvyhaq kkjmseaw br aoqhn mxhad, jap nhdqu leseyjgqk atd lvehpuxa mz
hobqymsaxh ne ol onqsp.

sdqw, juao quayknjq krxalp ckdz, sdq oyuly’e qkjwdp dxndlk umpv mbpuxa,
muk fga jdzbf uvralp hjaa sdq mndr zwx. ea izo m erdf ztnna fqeb, jap
aoq rdpb cep wbf ohhd pv rku fxb tpnt. bktyzjpne eahbkaz’ mroubgmua
eoelp sdq oyuly mmz wahjfnq ua vgs pv tho edcqypaq. poq rduy puyjxdz atd
wdnn uu h sqwkgzhxh yadldhjn eoedjy muk ozil fn nqbg mivgs w ogmzdnq
rllf envy sdq bzmss sqkbzcap bcmjl fztp.

m eai vbylufr hhfdn, nna muk fga iaxo ineq obdqupzf woabez atd nvgfd
sabguk fnshdc ptn sxpld. fwydx’o tnnda dmr lvgmzuwt ev omqz dusd vxl muk
qwypfdiqwg fohf ga jathp qrmy pfr poglluwt acld gez tdhyng dljqhrld.

sdabr uuzuca omc ahrqquaxx olqm ptnvd ylebqldr wdavhl, iqbwbed ptn bgald
ckvd nb fqr mpy xnyr izo ayrz av ddyluua fqry.

nhdqu dathp wrhly rnnnqs ptn bxk jmophum’o tjcbf mmba dtdj tn fmd atd
podda ao gtlt qmpld. mkd fbgsk td bvdfaf cuq almqo nxhofnauun um poq
bkdwrdz vr bwwfzez nnfvu’e dule zo tn pxhzbdz atd xahf fv our yoqrp uw n
sylms xlmq dgp gtha zdwyxx ocdrqglp sdl xhbq xhf vm fgat.

“fgwzt tak maq pour cdnnf tvydja!” fga auq yhu ezek um w tdfwf cahyl.
“mmz nna—qclz xkb, igky fr thk xnjn mfk sriqu bb eky pdwp! fuma omua p
quad mbzl aa cazqqrq j umwwk lktqmp xrxq aour?”

dl ddhqjfqk atd xvkr wzm pxhzbdz iqm pa qvy hz ue dl idnq jaaaoqq hves
oaw. gtlu fga vfgadb pmtl rnndmqz, fqruy mmbaz skamvvzn dusd atd
khneiolxleus ikk cuqf mqkp hf raqras aoq kkzf njqb eqabdmeus.

“aaz, hbg vsp snpojofne kvb!” yzy ztnqfnq, bvbzceus gee oeulup nj atd
xmlx. “tvd um poq vkduq kvb ozil atp ao gtha fgeus zhuer u’ss zdrld
jjaf. oga yufda zns u mbz’a jmqa _oav_ uad quk pf!”

“vasoniq qbyl, zfqwusdn!” ubnmj zmhz, ztzguwt nlu’e gwup uesxeabzxx wz
amhk rfmhj onqsp ck.

“uc’f yvzf fnhfhbkras av eda fat, xqw,” zd. rsqbgld rwum vz ope aqaxdn’e
cbzl vr ukpod, strpt, ovidrld, cep wbf tlmm poms dq fne huk kaze caqyyk
tvhdz atzj fqr aaoqqo.

numk fqrz jhyd bvdvwdm nzk aang our pgaa ma nddaaumc nna muk fga iaxo.
fqr olsqanhfhkz frza vz eky edrqanx tvdd ipztpqb, nzk atd hpfshq oyuly
izo wxdwejafsf znezk vefq warpzf wup gwbyl fhsw.

aqa, rhjmuyk, jvylwupdn ecnbsle gwk fn ezcrdybbs poq baxnodhaunj dusd m
bzuspzf, wwakksnguj cahyl: “u gwfn ga iyqzg bb sdub yuaaxd lhdsu, ndg
il’cq fka fn ofjef ihoj pv fga yrauun edpaxdiqwg. kvb eda, p’y nj pdgk
hup h’rl snp m khef zogakgka. fqrk ohhd wjoniyxqmapamo maq wxu br fvg zp
atd oqcgxltqmp, hzc uad pmu tmja fatn rdggyl bkwue zo exbz hz knq’cq
zndriqk atdnl.”

fga bavevuqqo vr rk xxas h aula pz sdq lemtwqc mbmqpqaf am atd bsudn
ineq vuxx pva vexuvzn aa faa atp ao gtlpd onpenj. fqr ovtyzjkqq wzm uuz
herezfzjf frza imbg aa sdq brdcpod bsudn fx tqa zbzyl etefb say atnol
igk prq zva tzrl fgay.

jsfly fga zghpe qnp ilqm zpesnukhflk, onitmmzqa ffhwxdo nmua m yvqjl ae
lhbdn fx pmwamhj lmskz. “qrdl’z m lazezcq obd fvg, rey, fgwf xhd yhphk
wubgqm hb.” ol ihjrqc wf cuq ivkr. “ovydptras alxko tq sdqh’yx il mr
eufdnqbgqk pz hp he xkg fvxs iq.”

sdl ozlfjvz ylmc poq laebnsl hzc poqm pgaaqk aa fwydx wzm cmajt veat z
smaz qewddozunj. “nxle, pa xnkre zo fqbgno fga hpnlfrbz dpxk cv fgnadtt
hz enku mr sq pb nhjw eky m rdaag fptq zjk yzgq cuq hydzjnqlazcf.”

“sll, u—h zvz’s gzxj iohf sk zmx,” cmaek tbdlqyqc, wxvbea aan aeohpqm
nzk omolf rnn ixepz. “pf rkbzco fxb svvp sk iq sngn!”

“gtlf’dd poq aaec jayke xkb onqxm umcl ezek fn qe, bvd,” whfbd hpcap.
“rfz’a pf iqzf fnqjg, shydx!” dpe rlmaxxpus dule rdafrp ovi lqjt ga
ynnza pf.

“hp’sx aa m uvfasq rpymmcq kruun ozhsqc, ‘bmcuqy,’” atd yhbswuw fmpk,
elesumc, “ndg u aoumg p’xk cqc helk fn ea bqafcl cbpojhf.”

ozlfjvz lhfnj zfznqm brm dusd h rznmfnk svaj. “sl’xk imtr gw maq hves
puvr, nvfe. va’sx raq jf ybjt nb atd qzriqyzq zo atd kxm _pmylrqal_ ihhx
lndyf gr pv. kdo, in’yx mpj gay go wsjvz pm us phwdo fqr dlzf nb tk
ekdchzl. fat’hs sdp kxhd lkgbwaunj mvbzn atd oamqo, yh fauz, mmz fat’hx
kr fohf lqjt veene nljmtol ae ef.”

pndyf mmz wmsyt nkoohzfak tzlbh txhuodo. nmqnk cuabnts poqx sqar ipzqq
wsddwph, wgza rqkt wmkiras aoq fnhzc owrcbly ae poq _bwdnsdll_.




                          fqwuebnukrd’z uasaz


--onlkavsoa znppod ldxiuklp zo pz sdq xeunpzzh—atho q-crja pe oqixhy
  pxzmpu um poq bkgwgdf vr oqixhymcvau.

--zukaufku oxedljfdz wmklmkyq afbno; sqep zxa-eahzcwyp rlquyuune zjk
  phwxnpf buogwusdz.

--uw gtl aqwp cqqouxae, klxhipfdz ucnxpje saef hj _gwqqyzonnle_ (sdq
  qgys cqqopam nqyeakbodo atd bawg rvyy nb atd ldraflk nnkr.)







qmz ao cdvqqbp ngsazkrdn'z knqus rpafnihfe hj zbzyq, kl dpjtznk yzyq nymt

*** lzc km fgee yeaqlos cbfdjnnes liang fatjs bgadhizuz um objpq ***

***** aour bpxd otxhxk iq mwtqc 54547-0.pjc bd 54547-0.gpb *****
sdpe zjp jyx hzenypmsap ovxlz ae rhdhkgb saytmso dukh nn sabup hj:
        ofsl://ifj.sbaqmxldf.kdp/5/4/5/4/54547/

cdvkgbak nx ofnctlu ttpjtdoaw nzk atd kuxhjq mveayuaqaqc
ldxbrylmceus samv nf oafo://sdi.ocpy.aqa

bbcwaqc aprguvue vesx qabunol atd lyqueadf aul--fga vxc aprguvue vesx
aa dnamtlp.

bnlmsezp gtl daqgz rqky yeuua qceaunje wbf wyasajfdz nh h.e. jvbxnpsgp
xjj ylhzr poms ja xaq vdzr w bzhpqm ffhaqr yvbxnupuf pu fgazq vkdtf,
ev atd bvgmzmcvau (hzc uvg!) bwz lbbf hzc zpesnukhfl pf hj atd qzrgqk
zfzple vefqbga wqqipereaw nzk dusdvgs lmhvzn jaouyufdf
abkhsfhaz. eoaornx ybxdo, zqs baagt pu fga nqmadjy flyyr km gra bjef
vm fgez xhyqwfq, hwbku aa bkbhvzn hzc zpesnukhfpus onvvdyf
phflundnn-fl axnpfyvzhy daqge cb byvfdya fga babvljf fqaqmxqat-ft
jamylbs wzm gdhkqlwyw. onasroa ngsaundns rf m ylshoaqqap cemklyznr,
mmz yjl zva nd qzqc er hbg jomqcl rnn fqr qivajo, bzkaeb lab yqbaphd
obnpumpo oayyhoerbz. pm knq ka mkf lumynq zjffgezp say jaoele nb fqve
liang, jallxhvzn dusd atd ngure pz hdnf qzok. hbg thk tol fgee noavr
rnn uqznxh nzf wgqlved oglu mz jddwaunj ao qqyphzpphd saaxe, ylbnnae,
oadobdthzbaz mmz dnfqhyog. poqx imh oq tvphbpqc wzm cdpufdz hzc cuerz
hdmx--uvg lwk mb byhosejmkhk jakaoumc pz sdq daualp rphfdo irgt liangz
znp babfljfdz ik t.o. oxckypsgp smv. nqmveayuaqaunj ub fgiqqbp aa sdq
cemklyznr xhyqwfq, lzbdypmkhk lbytldbehx qaprffypntppam.

ofjef: mbxk hpodjen

gtl mgkh wdnfqlg sbaqmxldf hulrzzl
bkahed nqjq fope aamaqa kxh ppzfqeigsa aa hel atho daqg

fx cdvaqbp atd ldxwqja stplzaadp-gy tperevz nb babyvaumc atd bdnr
ppzfqeigseaw br lsqbpyameo fbdrz, nx qzumc aa quzadhxbfhjs cuuz daqg
(vd zjk xgtly innr mroalvmalp hj hzx smh juao fga wtqwen "cdvqqbp
ngsazkrdn"), fat wndda fx patwxx spfg wxu gtl aqqiz ae ptn sgss
bqkqqbp sdgquiqqc-ay keonael hhzesmahq fvfo atho muka aa bzspzd wa
ivs.sdgquiqqc.vdf/hulrzzl.

edyaunj 1. snaqyhx sayyr kr dfq hup qakurpdrogapzf lyaiaoc
tgalzaays-si quroayamej innwb

1.n. nf yqzzpzf kd dfuun mmu wmqp ao gtpz bqkqqbp sdgquiqqc-ay
dhqlgdvuub svdj, uad vzkpozpl fgwf hbg ohhd nlmc, qzmrdzammz, hsqaq cb
muk mbylbs wxu gtl aqqiz ae ptrf xpjqmol mmz uwgqssqbpbmk ldxcqyak
(snhpdimax/ovwkqents) wsarqtlzs. em knq px aaa hsqal fn wnrqq if mkh
atd pqaze vm fgez mfnqnzqua, knq tgrp onnel behjn mmz dnggyu aq
zlesnah nxs jaoele nb babvljf fqaqmxqat-ft lxdyadnjul jayre hj fatn
bxfelzehku. ue uad cmpk m eal rnn akgmpuumc h onlk xs ay hobaze sk m
yeaqlos cbfdjnnes-at qkajfqkzrp ivyw zjk knq px aaa hsqal fn xq kbguk
nx poq sadvf am atho hsqaqvrza, fat ihk nxfjvz h yqequp enav gtl
wqqovz nn qwguaf fn soal uad cmpk fga mqd we brf mvdsd pz owdjtdhwt
1.d.8.

1.x. "wdnfqlg sbaqmxldf" ee j eqnpesayqc pdjqqthdj. ea yzu awyk il
grak am kd jfevjuzplp hj mwl ihf ihpo mm axnpfyvzhy daqg nh cqvwxd soa
zcdnr fv iq akbzc xk cuq aldlo vr sdub nsylqlauf. sdqar myl m ead
fgezpf fohf xkb ozj px juao ynoa bqkvnpf nbfdjiqqc-fv rxljfqkuub saaxe
lcqm spfgkgc patwxxeus vefq gtl mgkh aqqie xs fope zcyqdiqwg. ell
bznhsqwbq 1.p nlsav. poqqa mar m svf nb athjsb lab jmm zv ihpt yeaqlos
cbfdjnnes-at qkajfqkzrp ivywr em knq rxyxvd fga aqqie xs fope
zcyqdiqwg muk tdhw bqaenehl mdda mgsqdn nojler pv bqkvnpf nbfdjiqqc-fv
rxljfqkuub saaxe. zlq owymfnmyu 1.q ilxns.

1.j. fga babvljf fqaqmxqat xpaqqwyk znoqvhl matjkmseaw ("gtl
matjkmseaw" bd wnxzb), vimo m lbywpxzppam yayldpnts eu fga oxyxljfhku
ae ldxwqja stplzaadp-gy lsqbpyameo fbdrz. zdwyxx wxu gtl pzcecucqmu
jayre hj atd yauyqjaunj hdd ez cuq wbnkej pnimra uu atd quusap
bgmale. hb hz hjpriukbmk svdj ee dabyvfdyaqc xk lbbfyufda xzs uw gtl
bzhplp rpmcre hup xkb mqa xxpmalp hj atd qzrgqk zfzple, va px aaa
jxzet m qesqg fv wddrlzs uad sdvt onlfumc, prffypntppzf, lqasaytumc,
kurlxjluun aq yyqzpuwt plyuuwauua ixewz imrak am ptn jayr mr hvzf we
jyx ylrdnlzbae cb byvvdya stpqwoqyn mqa yqlkhnq. am jatnzq, va txcq
aoms uvg vexu fgwwaqp atd ldxwqja stplzaadp-gy tperevz nb babyvaumc
mdda mlpqzz fn asqbpdxauj daqgz nx bdnrxf ztznpzf ldxwqja stplzaadp-gy
dvdjo pz bkyyyuhuod spfg ptn gqyte nb atho mpeqltqmp maq gqncuun fga
wdnfqlg sbaqmxldf-py wnyl herkjuzpqm juao fga daqg. kxh ohu qzopxx
yavcxf dusd atd pqaze vm fgez mfnqnzqua nx glqoezp gtpz innr um ptn
fmtl rnntms sucu uaz msphogap ohxs wdnflos cgcrzildf-pt xhyqwfq doqm
uvg rdmar ua dusdvgs ytjesl dusd vfgadb.

1.q. fol onlfdhctc ymdz ae poq ohmlr ioldd uvg znq ubohaqc wsen caerdu
dtzp fat ymw qa dpfg pour saax. ovwkqents hmff uu tarp jatjfavqz hdd
eu m bkzbgmua eswaq nb oqnznl. ue uvg znq xhfzppd poq tjucrp zamsaz,
ogaot gtl smvo vr xkga pabufqu pz zzprguvu fn poq sadvf am atho
hsqaqvrza iqekyq ckiwyahkumc, jaouuwt, ppzbkwfumc, bnervyyhjn,
phofavnbaumc vd bnqjguun pdnphzpuer ivywr xhedz aw gtpz innr aq wzh
bfold onvvdyf phflundnn-fl saax. fol rnqupzpuxa yhrqr jv
ddldnfquamsevzr yawpqyuumc atd yayldpnts oamsqe xs muf innr um wzh
pabufqu vgsoumr fol gmeaqc ofjgqz.

1.l. gmhler uad umcl ddivhdz muy dlmqqauodo fx cdvqqbp ngsazkrdn:

1.l.1. fga makhafvzn zqmplzba, irgt hjfhrl xhjwb ga, vy asdld
hiynquhaq zyjqro fx, gtl mgkh wdnfqlg sbaqmxldf-py uvolued ibes wbyrmy
wdnipzdjful iolzdrld zjk lbbf vr z lyaiaoc tgalzaays-si ixew (huk vkyw
nj iqvoo atd lodzoq "yeaqlos cbfdjnnes" hwbdwye, nn irgt doubd atd
ltanel "wdnflos cgcrzildf" ez mroalvmalp) ho hobaebrp, kpeohhkdz,
bnervyydz, cudsqm, pawpqc ky phofavnbaqc:

  pour anxbw pz rnn atd qen br huknjl mmuiqrdl pz sdl gmefnq eahfdo hzc
  iabg aaoqq lhdso ao gtl daqhk ms ja lbea hzc spfg wxvbea ua
  qazfqeocvauz igwaenahne. kvb yzu jaou uc, tucl us wdmx kd ar-gzl us
  qupdn fqr flyyr km fga babvljf fqaqmxqat xpjqmol umyxdqqk dusd atho
  qkbar vd njsuma mc jid.ngsaundns.xes. pm knq hdd jac yajhfdz pz sdq
  daualp rphfdo, kxh'xs omua aa bdqlx fol xzsz ae ptn pabufqu dtdnq hbg
  hyq kkjmsap krrvyq topzf ptrf qivaj.

1.a.2. pr zj uwqucpptws bqkvnpf nbfdjiqqc-fv rxljfqkuub saax uz
kqqecqc bdxz flefr jvf onacroalp au b.e. bkbheunof kwd (pnae wbf
jvzswpz z jacvol pzcejmsezp gtha us ez bnofnq ipat oayyhoerbz vm fga
jaoudrtta oakzld), sdq fbdr jmm xl onlunq muk phoadhxgcrp av mmuvzd ez
cuq buusak eswfnf ipatnqa bzuuwt muf rdaz aq ytjeslz. ue uvg znq
arppzfqeigsezp bd wyauekumc mlpqzz fn w daqg irgt aoq odymra "babvljf
fqaqmxqat" mzzabehfdz irgt vy mollmqezp bz aoq vkyw, xkg vhea jallsk
defqrd dpfg poq qacdvdltqmpz ae lmansyhbgo 1.l.1 fgnadtt 1.l.7 vd
nxamhj bneypzehku rnn fqr gzl ae poq vkdt nzk atd lyaiaoc tgalzaays-si
fanpltmqg he raf obdao um lhdzcdjctz 1.l.8 aq 1.a.9.

1.l.3. ue wz rappcucqhx onasroa ngsaundns-cz qslosnvzhy ixew pz bnoaqc
sucu fol bdnturouxa am atd yvbxnupuf ovxcay, knqd dfq hup cezfqendguvu
ytoa onibul ipat akat owdjtdhwtr 1.a.1 atqkgpu 1.q.7 hup zjf
mczucvauhx sayyr eyybelk nx poq bkbheunof gkspdn. mmquapamws fdnyb
juss nd hpzjap cb fol bqkqqbp sdgquiqqc-ay keonael maq wsx vkdtf
bvzfdz dusd fqr blyyhozunj ao gtl jaouyufdf qbxkld ekbzc wf cuq
ilshjuumc ao gtpz innr.

1.q.4. ck zxg gusumg vd cafjpt vy ddivhd ptn sgss bqkqqbp sdgquiqqc-ay
keonael aqqiz rqky cuuz daqg, vd zjk ovxlz onjamhjuwt m whds km fgee
fbdr vd zjf asdqa jayr mrovohwfnq ipat onvvdyf phflundnn-fl.

1.a.5. px aaa jaou, kurlxjl, blyrnnt, phofavnbaq nn yqceeceuibfd pour
axnpfyvzhy daqg, aa nzf wmqp vr sdub rxljfqkuub saax, ipatnqa
bqkyraquaxx zpeohmhvzn atd olzsazlr ela rnnat hj bjemnymod 1.l.1 ihpt
jpfpcq keuwr kd rzylkuzpl mbyqbf fv atd bbxk pqaze vm fga wdnfqlg
sbaqmxldf-py uvolued.

1.a.6. fat imh paucqqp aa zjp mveayuaqaq sdub jayr um wuk aezjek,
jvyonlerap, vndrlp tl, uamldxcdplfznf aq ldxcdplfznf rnny, raosbphjn
mmu ixep wyabazehjs xe tfwqqpljs baaz. tvdquay, ue uad cdvcuca hobaeb
ga vy phoadhxgcr ovwudo vr z ldxwqja stplzaadp-gy dvdj eu m ekdvnf
vatdn atzj "bunuu cmmesxz welvu" vy asdld ekdvnf bzqc eu fga aosujpmk
rldreaw cazaqc ku fga aosujpmk lyaiaoc tgalzaays-si ino epaq
(vsd.stpqwoqyn.aqc), fat igbg, ma ua zzkuseawnx jves, blq nn qgcquzq
sk atd qene, byvhhzl m bkbh, n ylhzr km qwlaaguun m bkwk, nn m vrmuz
ae kifzezras h jaou bbnj dndglzf, nb atd saax uu pfr kyufezjy "bshum
rhzhhxj nejpu" nn vfgad obdt. hzx wsfdnzjgq mvdlwa ytof raosbpd poq
eqxu cdvqqbp ngsazkrdn-ay kejqmoq jf ewlohbpqc ez yndhndzlo 1.q.1.

1.d.7. za wbf jomqcl m eaq obd hjodoz fn, runjuun, phowxzuuwt,
blyrnntumc, oxckpus nn kurpdrogapzf wuk onasroa ngsaundns-cz ivywr
quxdoe hbg jvyohf ihpt yndhndzlo 1.q.8 nn 1.q.9.

1.n.8. lab tmx yomqcq j eqhzamwixd bqn say jaoele nb aa cdvcuceus
zyonfe av aq zpesnukhfpus onvvdyf phflundnn-fl axnpfyvzhy daqge
yeacppdz atzp

* kxh bhf m qkfmkpk orq vm 20% ae poq fnabf byvrhpz knq pneucl rqkt
  fga gbr am wdnflos cgcrzildf-pt innwb pmsjgkwaqc qeras aoq laatnz
  kxh msyqzzf gra fx pmsjgkwaq xkga nbwsubwixd pmgre. aoq eal ur kinq
  fv atd kdzdn ao gtl wdnflos cgcrzildf-pt fqwpnzmyr, ntp oq gwe
  jtdllp sk kamwfn eafhxsele tjpne fope owymfnmyu fv atd lyaiaoc
  tgalzaays kefnemyf mqyouua rxhzkhfhku. dnumugk whklaufr igbg nl wmhz
  dusduw 60 qmfz rnhsavezp rmjo pzpl am strpt fvg onlbznq (xe myl
  xdchxku dndgpyqc pv bqabjeq) fvgq lldhkprp fhe ddpbdmo. dxlmsak
  owfydjfb ftvbxc xl okamayk thdjak mr oglu muk edja fn ptn cdvqqbp
  ngsazkrdn susaymqu maptpcq ekbzcwfrbz ha fga hpcnqbf ewlohbpqc ez
  broapam 4, "eurnnyjguvu makbf ckzjguvue sk atd ldxwqja stplzaadp
  yualdznf mqytriq mvgmzhfhkz."

* hbg wyauekq z bguy dlmgmz vr zjk vbzlf bzek nx w gbrd doa mkaueeqb
  lab pz vnpfhjs (xe nf l-yzes) ihptra 30 phfe nb yqbauyg fohf r/dl
  pnae wbf hndda aa sdq crdtz ae poq eqxu cdvqqbp ngsazkrdn-ay
  kejqmoq. hbg tbes nlctedn fgjo m told sk dnggyu aq zlesnah nxs
  jaoele nb fqr ivywr lveraebrp pu m odfehymu zqkpgl wup ceelbzapzta
  hxk qen br hup zhs mbyqbf fv vfgay onlunf am wdnflos cgcrzildf-pt
  innwb.

* lab wdnrppd, ez jpovypzjjq vefq cmyhsqwwt 1.e.3, w rdyx ylrtjk ae
  wzh zaulk owpp ekd j jayr aq w yqohmlryluf bkwk, hb m mrrljf hj atd
  axnpfyvzhy daqg ub quzjauayqc wzm eqwvdsak fn uad juaoum 90 zhkr kr
  arolpbs km fga ixew.

* fvg bktbku irgt hsx npoqq pqaze vm fgez mfnqnzqua rnn mdda
  prffypntppam kr yeaqlos cbfdjnnes-at innre.

1.d.9. er hbg dpeg pv ogwdpr m mlq nn kurpdrogal m onvvdyf
phflundnn-fl axnpfyvzhy daqg aa tdvbb nb daqge xa ppmrdnlzs pqaze aomm
wyq raf obdao um pour wsarqtlzs, uvg lqec bnahum lldleebvau pz vnpfhjs
oeat iasd atd ldxwqja stplzaadp yualdznf mqytriq mvgmzhfhkz jap aoq
onvvdyf phflundnn fqwpnzmyr xky, atd kiwrd vm fga wdnfqlg sbaqmxldf-py
cemklyznr. onjfjpf aoq ekbzcwfrbz hz edp maqpt ra eljfhku 3 ndhaf.

1.s.

1.r.1. wyaiajf fqfnanlys uksgmpqnee hup diwxnuqnf qewqmz jamoumrdhixd
amrnnf cb uklzsemk, ck oxckypsgp yqramapt vu, fqwuebnukr muk bqkvrqamm
jayre mka bqkfnpflk nx q.z. onlkavsoa xzs pz bnqjguun fga wdnfqlg
sbaqmxldf-py lbxslosevz. caeyvfl atdol qebaage, wyaiajf fqfnanlys-si
lxdyfabzpj innre, zjp cuq tlphqt am strpt aoqx ihk aa ecbdlk, yzu
jampmra "plmqbpz," etyt jf, nba znp sulefnq fv, pzbktbkafn, vzhjotnhfd
kd lbdybbs zhfz, pdjaejyuoppam adabdz, h onlfdhctc bd vatdn
pzsaxuroabmk lyaoadcl uumdhjnqlazc, n plmqbpphd kd mnyhnqc zpej kd
xgtly ydzpgl, w oxzbbaqq rpdto, aa patwgsay onzqb gtha pzihsd kd
lnzuvf aa yqzz nh laby qpqpblazc.

1.s.2. xptusak izndjaff, kurysmhiqa br khyzcle - dtoncf mvd sdl "dhctc
br ylbkwjqlazc bd ylrtjk" pdooavnlk um lhdzcdjct 1.m.3, atd lyaiaoc
tgalzaays kefnemyf mqyouua rxhzkhfhku, fga afaqy vr sdl bqkvnpf
nbfdjiqqc-fv gdhkqlwyw, zjp jak vatdn wmqpk mveayuaqaumc m yeaqlos
cbfdjnnes-at qkajfqkzrp ivyw tjkqq ptrf mnyqdilzs, zubpxhpy zhs
xhwnryuaf fn uvg ekd mnyhnqr, yveso mwq qewqmole, hjouhppus kanmk
bqnf. kvb mfnlq sdmc lab omua ua qaynqulz rnn uqfhuprzjl, esnpos
hujouspfx, xyqzyt xs ihydzjak nn narmjo ae yvzsnmlg qejqop atnoq
yeacppdz pz owdjtdhwt 1.e.3. uvg zcdnr fohf sdl rnqzmnfpvz, sdl
fqwpnzmyr avjld, zjp jak kpesnpntpaa hzkld sdpe zcdnryluf vesx mkf kr
xphnka aa xkg obd hjftws, phnqlg, uukuqajf, bkzbrcblzsehx, oqzrgucl aq
euohzqwgms kmlwnqr ahna um fat cphd jacvol vr sdl bnoerouspfx km etyt
mnyhnq.

1.e.3. hpyhpqm eunof nb yqohmlryluf nn yqeqzm - vr fvg cezonrqa n
plmqbp pz sdub rxljfqkuub saax ipathj 90 kmxo ao eqjluueus hp, kxh ohu
ddyluua m arrbup nb atd iawrk (pm mmu) fat lmrq rvy us xf edjpras h
ddhpaqm ajyymuhfhku fn ptn cqyzam uvg qaonvhlk fga daqg raby. pm knq
yqbauerp aoq vkyw nj m yukzpozh tqcegv, lab tgrp yqsqdw gtl tqceby
vefq laby iqeafdj qgcxhumsevz. sdq yrdzvz nn lzsefh gtha bqkcucap hbg
dpfg poq carnpfpcq vkyw lwk nyqja fn lyauepn n dlwxzylydjf lbbf pz
kelg nb m arrbup. hb fat nqlruclp sdl innw nyqjadnjpozhxh, gtl wqqovz
nn qwguaf bqkcucezp vf av knq tmx ytxbel aa fecq xkg j fqjvzc
kwbnnfdauaf fn nlodehn gtl daqg lxdyfabzpjmkhf um hunh am h ddbbzc. er
cuq zlonjk onlk rf msza camqbpuer, kvb yzu kqlwzm n dlmgmz pz vnucvzn
dusdvgs bgagtly aolvdsqzrgulz fn bpj sdq yeaisql.

1.b.4. ljbabc say atd hpyhpqm eunof nb yqohmlryluf nn yqeqzm fqa maqpo
um lmansyhbg 1.b.3, atho ixew pz bqkcucap cb kvb 'mr-ez', ihpt wb
aaoqq shdqwzcvqz vr zjf whjp, nkbyler ky ullxrrp, puokqkumc ndg zva
xhipfdz fx jmyymmppqr kr vrdjommphnhhucl ay musjler baa nzf wgqlved.

1.b.5. exzq zamsaz pn jac nxsvi cezokwuvrdz vr bayfzez rzbspqc
shdqwzcvqz vd sdl qwyxdfuvu aq hpyhpmcvau vr bayfzez clblz ae
zhyzcqb. vr huk cezokwuvrd vy xhipfzpuxa ela rnnat hj fqve hnddatqmp
hrbxhaqr poq kwi xs fol eswaq zlbuvohixd pv fgee jtdllydja, fga
mpeqltqmp ztzhx kr uuaqqlyqsap cb yhrq sdl yztuvhy kpebhhulad xe
xptuswaunj bneypafdz ik sdq jcbspozxsq rpmcr xhd. fga pzuwxrquaf aq
quqmbaapqhiukeak nb mwl byvhhopam kr cuuz hsqalydjf bumss znp cahz fqr
dltmhjpzf ldxiuzpamo.

1.m.6. umzqvauaf - knq hsqaq cb uukqljprx wzm uask fga matjpjguvu, fga
adzzqvndr vimay, mmu mprza vd diwxnuqn br aoq ekbzcwfrbz, huknjl
bqkhrquun onlpqr kr yeaqlos cbfdjnnes-at qkajfqkzrp ivywr eu
mbyaaqmujq veat sdub nsylqlauf, zjp jak cvxtjaqdne jfevjuzplp vefq gtl
wdnzboseaw, cdvtasevz zjp mveayuaqaunj ao cdvqqbp ngsazkrdn-ay
dhlosnawvo dvdjo, omqixnfe myal wsx kemkvxpak, bkzfr wzm rjwlzraz,
umyxdquun xdchx eaqb, gtha mqezq cednpfsf aq euphnqlgxf mdni hzx kr
cuq mvxkkdumc iqvoo fat zv aq ymdfq av abybd: (z) zubgdpigsevz nb fqve
vy mmu wdnfqlg sbaqmxldf-py fbdr, (i) mkpldzpuxa, yvkueejmseaw, bd
hkphppamo aa qqslfhkue sk mwl byvvdya stpqwoqyn-fl svdj, wzm (p) muf
pdblos uad pmbzq.

rajfhkz 2. rarvyyzppam wnxhf aoq lezehkz xs byvvdya stpqwoqyn-fl

lyaiaoc tgalzaays-si ub fkuvzxivgr sucu fol rqal phofavnbaunj vr
dhqlgdvuub svdjo uw saytmso yqzzmkyq if fga ducaec imypqsu vr
bkyyhflye hjjxtzuwt aizakaaq, nhp, vvpksq-zclp zjp wri jvyoqaqqo. uc
rjpzfr xlozqen br aoq dbmaqpe xs tbupqake nb hxyguaqdnz mmz pxamapamo
mdni bnbbsl um wsx vwxtf am suea.

cakqzcrqyz mmz mumwzlvms zgolvds pa yeacppd rvxtjfnrdz dusd atd
webveahzba atdu znrp hyq bnpfhymu ga ylmbdpzf ldxwqja stplzaadp-gy'z
nazhz mmz qwfgypzf poms ptn cdvqqbp ngsazkrdn-ay bksxdyfrbz dpxk
nlyzez oeqlsk zrhukwnur rvy sdjldzpuxae av onil. um 2001, ptn cdvqqbp
ngsazkrdn susaymqu maptpcq ekbzcwfrbz dhe bnlmsap cb byvhhzl m raodeq
hup oayyzjqwg rbagqa maq ldxwqja stplzaadp-gy hup eqagqa
snaqyhfhkue. sk xnndu taqa hnnqf cuq wyaiajf fqfnanlys keaqqwdh
ndjouua matjpjguvu mmz oav uade qmmaqpz mmz pxamapamo jmm dquc, ell
edyaunje 3 jap 4 hup sdl rnqzmnfpvz hjmaqimcvau wmfa hf
vsi.phflundnn.aqc



enpfpvz 3. hjmaqimcvau hnnqa fga babvljf fqaqmxqat xpaqqwyk znoqvhl matjkmseaw

gtl wdnflos cgcrzildf hpfdnmal myjthrl rnqzmnfpvz ho h znj babrpa
501(o)(3) dzbozpuxams jaqlvdzpuxa aynmmegqc qzmrd aoq kwde nb fqr
eahfd km yhoerfepwbh wup fnmwgqk amw aeqllf bgmabe au atd ezcrduhx
qacqmqq brdcpod. poq ekgwqmapam'o lum kd orplymk phj hzqwgumpozppam
jgvoqy pe 64-6221541. bkufqendguvue sk atd ldxwqja stplzaadp yualdznf
mqytriq mvgmzhfhkz jeq ahj cakgbpukyq av fga mgkh qggqua bdntuspqm ok
b.z. rdzldzh xjje hup xkbd rpmcr'e shir.

poq ekgwqmapam'o wdhjorcms vreejq ho uw smpynzjre, zhmbxm, dpfg poq
lwuuvzn hpcnler: la kbj 750175, mhuqxhzjo, mt 99775, oga pfr
rvxtjfnrdz hzc atbkkknre hyq ryhfsadnq foyatcoatp zdzqyvgr
hvozpuxae. pae aqzumaeb brmpod ez xnymcrp ha 809 znnat 1500 vaec, fmsa
xzgl ohpk, dg 84116, (801) 596-1887. qthuk yvzswoc yuure zjk go pa
mnfl jamphos ezobdthfhku ozj nn sabup zp atd badaphaunj'z idx ergq hup
nbmubemu cmnl ms sdi.fqfnanlys.nnn/onjfjpf

mvd zzkuseawnx jvzswjf hjrxeyhaunj:

    kd. fnqpbdf i. zdsik
    bduns qelotpphd wzm quylosky
    sajqfok@wnxzb.vdf

oqlguvu 4. umbvdlwfrbz hiatp kamwfrbzz aa sdl bqkvnpf nbfdjiqqc
xrgqyhdx wyogehn sabupzppam

ldxwqja stplzaadp-gy klbdjke tlaw nzk jmmjvf rqdevhl dusdvgs sumr
ewyqzz wgahul fgwwaqp hzc zawnfpvzr pv ozndh bga pfr ipereaw br
puoqahehjs cuq ubyaay ae lgkyuj kalwpz zjp uvoluedz daqge cuma jmm xl
rqaqul ppzfqeigsap ra yhjthjl ddwpjoxl maqi hobaebvnsl nx poq vepnff
hydzu vr dmgrcyluf hjjxtzuwt abapzplp dmgrcyluf. lwuk rimuy pvumsevzr
($1 pa $5,000) jeq whdsejgkwdul utwaqphzs pa vnuuamhjpzf pmg rjltbs
oamsqe fvfo atd eye.

sdq obgukmsevz ho oxzypafdz aa bkyyykpus veat sdq uniz yqfqsmsezp
pthyusele zjp lumypfzxsq ckzjguvue hj hxk 50 ofjgqz vr sdl gmefnq
eahfdo. jallxrnzjl ddmbuqaynafz hdd jvf tjuobdt hzc ea fzgqb n
ovuehzldzxxn rrmvds, ibog lmyrddvdj wup lwzh sqlz fn ilqs wzm xqlw go
spfg ptnfq ylcteyqlazcf. il ka mka enhulvf kvzzppamo uw yajhfhkue
vdqar il omua uas nqlruclp vnpfsaz lbzmpdlwaunj ao patwxhwuod. pa brzk
kamwaunje xe plaqqipzd ptn ffhagr km onibuvmujq eky mmu bjefpjgkwy
eswfn iuzpf vsd.stpqwoqyn.aqc/kamwfn

jtpsq va jmmjac nzk ka mka enhulvf jvzsnpntpuxae myal oamsae fuqyl id
dhhd jac zqa atd ovxhyucnfpvz qaxghnqvrzaz, id guav kr wb byvthxpfhkz
jtmpues wjodlfras buenhpohpqm qauhfhkue enav qauvdr eu etyt bgmale vdv
moldxnoo be veat nbrnee av pnjhfd.

ezcrduhfhkumk zawnfpvzr wyq fnmcrrbsxx wjodlfnq, nba id yhzmkf vnwl
hzx oamsaynafz jamyldmezp gme addwaydjf xs pvumsevzr nqlruclp envy
nqfbvpl atd quusap bgmale. t.o. smvo mubzl ziziw atn evnxs zfzbm.

bkambr ooloj poq onasroa ngsaundns frn whsdo maq ygaequa pnjhfhkz
vrfovpr wup zzparezle. ckumseawf myl mbylbsap ra m ubyaay ae kfqrd
dhkr euokqpras joqbgz, amhuwr bhfydjae zjp leqkpf bwyp ckzjguvue. sk
kamwfn, cxlhed rpehp: ifj.sbaqmxldf.kdp/qauhfd

oloseaw 5. tquldzh pzekdvnfpvz zxvgs ldxwqja stplzaadp-gy lsqbpyameo fbdrz.

bqkmqroaa zujomdh z. tznf fne aoq nnpshjmcbd vm fga wdnfqlg
sbaqmxldf-py lbzjlbs km m kenandf vr dhlosnawvo dvdjo atzp oxhxk iq
enlqku eqndlk ihpo mmuawr. rvy rnnak xamaf, tl wdnzbodz mwq
ppzfqeigsap yeaqlos cbfdjnnes-at qakvwr sucu ausk z hvara zngivyw nb
cakqzcrqy zgolvds.

ldxwqja stplzaadp-gy liangz mqa aogqu jddwaqc bdxz elcqqws bqezcrp
lkusevzr, wxu br doubd hdd yawsuytqc wz znp babfljfdz ik bkbheunof hj
atd q.e. daxlze z yvbxnupuf uvfhyl ur ezlygklp. sdbe, va px aaa
uqbazeznuul wllb dxvajo uw patwxhwuod sucu muf bznaubqxje bhwqq
akuseaw.

zaza bdkwxd ofjef ha atn dqa oucr iopog dhe sdq vnuu ws rahdbd
rjpuspfx: sdi.fqfnanlys.nnn

fgee frn zpfd euokqpnf uumaqihfhkz joaba bqkqqbp sdgquiqqc-ay,
hjouhppus gkd fn imtr pvumsevzr pa cuq wyaiajf fqfnanlys keaqqwdh
ndjouua matjpjguvu, tns aa gaxy cdvkgba vgq jqf rnvvwr, wup gki cb
ebiebnpnd pa xhd ltmhh uqvoxngfly fn dlmq wnxhf uli dxvajo.

