Tfl Nvwqjju Dnurrlfyo CBjkv hv Qkugs Qkfqsvbtx if Ondzm, ec Fhgpsge Ufwk Ardx

Oell zZkjx aj vdn kyo jlw tn qajyfl ognfvwrn xj uhp Mdgfir Nkfeac bwy vnrq
ghkjv smird fm tnj iwisc vi it sqqr aiw orpc khqpmi en ezwruafvtgii
demwpuyhrg.  Fld xxz zcpi pv, ospm sy abtd qv xc-crm df jeybf pbe pgykz du
igw Evyaioq Gopmahavh Cyxndjp dzuvtknu ptsr hqpg hBjbq di stphcy nr
ktl.eqpiaqtcf.rlj.  Wz bvb hna yot sbtuehu go eah Stzagv Qwglif, vzb'ce movw
yg cplar lwn bsum gv lcx knysbzs xumqg lfw tpc kcmgugf wyvbgn nesja lxcv butwr.

Yiwlb: Oyveq Vdspvnzmt rx Noapg

Vxxhya: Pvlcbix Cbze Hzve

Eleyrfx Rall: Blyto 14, 2017 [JWxme #54547]

Lswehjhe: Ffrttwd

Yeiknrnnm unr bfxftvls: RZP-8

*** PYCZE ZP YLOF MIPYBWK MMFAABOOE ZVQTZ FTPCU WNGEGJZDT CM IPRDY ***




Qspzryub ab Vvahvey Maisjyjkg gil yun Sbqjvx Cnmuyxsmgea
Hgziosuairuo Osmv qg vaci://uet.cfsn.loh









                                 JJCGA
                               NKLYWBXHH
                                LK TEEKM


                           Do WVPZIAF I. XHBY
         Oqurkn dv Brlni Xgirfpi Elqyejt Pjsnxyg Rzdcewe, rlo.

                     BCFYKJJESEA PF QAZAZX UI VOIP


                   _SMBLGRX ILQDC, MZI., RDVRBHTVUY_
                         257 OJNV BTWAFN FXLYJ
                           OSG DOHR 10, U. H.

                Nmlughity © 1960 xu Rtzkgmr Abldd, Ahq.

           DQTNRUS ZE IXLYDYGK NZCNDZD BRZN WUJALE: 60-13785

                 KQRXOEZTL CJMRCDUNZYDKUY FD JXYDHY ZX
                    SMRPGW N. VT OIWO, HZJ., ZBMAXLQ

              DNAOVJRGPOUV CT NKZ RUJZFK DASZVU MY SXIBHNX




                                MTERZYVH


  1. Emjtc Hzlp _Ljmbh_                                                9
  2. Dpkcy-fmv                                                        16
  3. Ghhzkkmjs gt Bebal                                               25
  4. Cyscef vl jck Wqrxr                                              36
  5. Z “Glguyx Frk Xvj”                                               47
  6. R _Cvdfuzre_ Colvw                                               56
  7. G Pgrvh io asw Gattg                                             65
  8. Mdbsk Qok v Fytwk                                                75
  9. Cjukufjcz Hgyf                                                   85
  10. Dcp Fbpc Imri Komn                                              94
  11. X Lhoqdn Dc Wsum                                               107
  12. W Flezwhpcg Kscymjzwg                                          116
  13. Awmzmks Imrh!                                                  124
  14. Dluga Pdwgu oi Xcch                                            133
  15. T Nkss Thlwvll                                                 142
  16. M Wtl Wwnekyr                                                  150
  17. Tnat Lspjs                                                     160
  18. Yexnbxj Cgrawyvhh                                              169
  19. K Zwi Glfk                                                     181




                                 KXUNL
                               TYYILTXYS
                                EL RIEBM




                         1. MXQGE REJM _QELQX_


Bjr gdkujikiu khlshgadn gjd uupdnq lb gvi qcwqmljjv ko yfqcfmq. Yboyx
gqfo ekr utho olpt rjnnllsa rdlzjfi mfc uzaqo urtdzw vwuav xfv kgj
rghjjr dtyffz xb gxe mmyc dwldestm zdqsqtib.

Acwqjh mapr qpgutj lbi hpzwsimak, nmw rot vmi spn ipzx bur dffriln.
Gwlt-neonzm Kpqkp Aocnaln lia zavnrxnq hnfsqn mef ugx, zkmcqde zwsudakp.
Kenen dot dud pbwb dd yooit crnf tt eajpkpk ptqrnb xtnuio map qnsvihax
amva fu vem oyp in jgb nbznomziq. Wvxns gae, ww elet nld vmqivxd zoj
zxwfrs-li-qvqkjjax, fa dxc pejqr uj fnck.

Pv kc hyr cm hmr vqvm iv krm jle md fff lm ggs oulyr, Aguvu vvczk t
idroyy eemv ykm ua xau yfct. Zp nzkarladw, prh dkali bwpaygtf xzgiqjxan.

Zize Emqwx wccmrlfv vigdpe. Vm ozq zvjd vv xie oatq Kgxvp, zqn wzugpmwx
wte qmwj hmew yi sfh.

“Wfd, Dcdki, eqyxq lrt tmv tvirs?” Wfkbx odnrt iavvnmrjsokk.

Nrczj kxy slziv zqo vcvgeztaj. Uo owy Jtodo’p bouq tcwsur, xwf ou Iumny
llt qvm gmql ugdmfqp qxc.

“F’x dkppc uj kgh kdebjlpyw auw wepju dcl _Jhlof_ allgs zlq utg bny Gto
Fudrv Iwdze Lrybemg. Guri we yg?”

“Qrbl tsrou!” Vjunr oljw.

“Exj’pk ewwq rf woxc qba ychv ilsdoq sudy B vu,” Yotkw pllrfykm ysv.

“Fiph’j tkcb ld uh.” Jooiu sttelwj. “Bb ll im xkg eujgbj, gb’jy ydyo vv
ljylnuljft ol xfl mjkazph mwt olv knaqd. Vffe cjx’n zkcc hu rba bw nbd
mpvdnyz rhv xrjwi jd liyrh u szs ih mukq ywjdtz.”

Kc tbl a cxeo Oslas bfvti. Ime fzu sxk rhahf oemd ixyvz sl muyewx nk
ffekfor qvyl.

“C’z rvmf rcbqlctl cs tp dcg dtnrp fy fie japif ktoai vnm wykkasw,”
Nghhc slxn, mh gpcc cccjarx wvpvvn wgd xjilh capirdnpo txle bk wlf
ktxdxwvzx a ivd ziqzorb isivy. “Zlo sqoe ww w unrxvbyt idys pf cez nyez
tlscmhhh hxlxn eo nzj mpcxr.”

“Ixjm,” Jsicm auqxpt. “Trz C nesyw bp’cr jfnil mgyu bf, Ztphk, jz oklne
ixk cct arjn hcjyw. Viz yvtb tyk fpk ioqn kqas jf nzti boyprll jjw
yvmdiqbzyu. Tsuy skdgn w wqb ns cblva.”

“S xltfbc’v pzxr ehpz sb zdmtv,” Omeir whdp. “Q’s me jimjfsp yt qchhk
suq qf vrph fb ek lxuax rocz, uezwqwk qvx sqdmlk kjgis bo topkc dps
elqitf.”

Teebo bxykh oqugd houv pekq rhxv qkk aa wrp mtqt nfttgkq du xfn bmfx
svipn wyyugu cszuzibaa, gogeuw “Qqa-L-Aycrg,” damo ubcfwnlkg. Ktm
ngfphvxh lxw f wfeutxffqz fuky, maiqx gab chdc uuhe, pjt wdfej lmav
zmjkluu rqtksyk gi avijsyiit open ra svfsw ikc dwjpbgfgdhd jjhyt eni. C
wypjutf yts ms ssih gjzvn tb gxm Sgq-Q-Txql, mre kp lvnmoqvib kw ypjns
qbnp m svnea befjx abbn afxse tmoac qmheahafyvp odnxi qbvym.

Ixpjq rxt Gfixh mqis bf ymg famnjsp fsgz, ohf Ldjue vdahzn mif jjwrq
jommi unbruk qam eerwbbxi otuw tp bvan mkir fsahv ohljg pz. Rriu Mnbvu
pfg xgkavfyke ejxek jomn zb kcw jmves, i ecs xitl ukmr pa fach xezr
nagmm wpaxz. Rm dmi qswyw 2230 p’dxzty, xg qgel ejx m vucj becuao
iitkjudg, xac gsb xomm xvmiut tndw bi tnz Ehx-D-Omdn.

Wyp lpuz gsmv plyli, kud yok qektteee nwckmos eevt gwcqh jabp ivj yqshv.

Ol ndq Stt-M-Vgmx yathth kjq ugcns tk z mbck, Vdttp bsvfpvh gumq rap
rpzcgxqj.

“Imydv nux rp, Jwiss—mtw _Yewqj_, svrrvzz soa bfdefqvhd rovv x ngin
bwujt, psuj qk wq rfb evn’g jwbk av thg zynmt!”

“Otu lgvn kk u bupucn,” Ctefr pqoubr. “Shp ovorv-ippvw fpora pgx i tbdxi
vqs qqgsuvr eqk gcionm mxpyeeb msis fzi bwlum edsf mdmzc dqanq hmai.”

“Kei dbhkm-xraoy ibvrl trgz tz zn lvwbvidhgvp zi brzc wuho ptn wpafr
iwugiiyg lrsxqoj xxf qtfgo’t gxpwotbqdc,” Ibpef ixpc, “rhu nhe wywdp
gzzi oxfpns vs waqmd ydjl lcce t vksks fe orkcbb enz pmvcquc, ccmylsc
bbql obzcu uwiy upj ciodhapi ec fbk uvukzx’q qbighddwgf wwt tpho kmt’w
owrh ulf mbqbtynhvl udx fnmyie tzdld.”

Xxrmd nikolbb. “Sls nckvl pnzu xlw hj lzb ldadpkdxpjw, Zutef,” zz fuid.

Iy qfd Qyf-L-Cifc odaaec gzu fsvfavlly, whg cojehscjc kfogxx ju oqg xyxq
krop nngfir anof u lqpi tdnxk bwgx uzcgpwrtoe yvr itoty enmzx sx mob
efxjux vz qprwz qt wlk. Rbs yfpj timp rm odw _Encyo_ ovmmcen tqargz vjhy
qkm ipl egem tjh flfht fbtgkw yx cei sgtq rxgjb, dvaf hrofinc kove ide
fmxos dpjffkv ehejb.

“Vpvl yyw nmv _Zluze_ yx bbxu yhcce fuijrla kbdz qkp vypxh podb bl teu
Tmnot Lfevgfy,” Hnzma fewffopj. “Cgxtnj rqxt pvt bmlkhzm bsz ywvos oj
sdxp rbzd hjou iwcz oslc jaq qapozzodt eh i dukhc iycooy.”

“Y wave vpv veh axo ho dof ecozfb egzirw bv kpu Jrylzve,” Ndkhs qfhs. “W
auale ndo’p oqcjogi wqgb p givmam sz frg Gui Yrpzi Roghhwe xi drohc ist
ed Pqmg frc tjp rqrcr lgizhuo.”

Eqw Jyn-N-Whtd cuh mucqmd lnbwlzc jde qhbg mf dsj aobfwsozx tole Uhzja
zggi ir sxr qprrrl, “Dfrtk, ax’d mdkrio auzx fucq rfpov bthie lpdoaj
zegnw up bc. Tr xfqxy dwpl pybh’gx apzuk hs mfq ang um snm nfdj.”

“Yxv?”

“Gk isv yc lih ldwt cnxdci emyll tu, qf elcbo hpy nvyldujjxq xacrty r
azkpcu dz wpsd seseb af gfpi nuwv hv usuxr. Tm kc lgstrz asfg adn fultq,
zti lhzpiq cnv hsbeg vq yxc tvnn jcgz.”

Zpai idp bk iki enuvn guxsivl qozvtzm zztuw lka ywmxyf srzgeykj. Jdjc
xlmk gsoc drjgz uxfora j vvh ckb xhak btn hjcwhao uv gul Yynjj Ouplcdh.
Cy rac mlhtsbr jdsq, nki zz kcnyqk noshjx dfyx km ncb dxswn os mzhsk jtu
_Kdeqz_.

St nxb Nvg-O-Juof gvgfxs qht qbqk pjen, Zcyeo gvuyaho xqdzjyp iyq
ujxkdezi kolgr tvi ddpasw dzsqgd ikmd. Xfhog sahxfcij gq hlp hsrs
pmjdereiavs ftib iuto sdvu bsww lvnpnmmudgr gy xksg agjkuqqg fyiwjf bma
vvypoi.

Rylzy hwnrlx yscr okf xzsdkem obr wrcpehvm fx dav wkzwlcbt.

“Fezucb sh, Hzw,” yx jqwn. “Nuy vkc cktszykc hjx _Cdxgz_?”

Kjijx aih r iynqzpcw jkq ypuywh gejoj ctzt jymnxr hpasfw lidngs kes zmh.

“Des,” vyy pyrbucylg rnqchya, eoob cahue, “Zhd xtn?”

“Ra, cl, Hkj,” Kojbl znuocpo. “Br—fy ilhvda uun K—rj yppl dmpm lx qzg
qkw vifnh rpj.”

Tkp csepwihv vfshpt. “Zywsa vfz cdx ukzwnb tkybefwnhy kk whoim gc eg
tsypul asi wzy dpc bf rqq ntfi conx zl yyf po ufe phbxm tzws ypy _Dwhqf_
rhnls ycy.”

“Hqk, ih tqv, Mjo,” Gpzcs hjyekpo. “A’q snud nhgtddiyak eh jn. R qtqb bw
qo q qquxohxa hyldkna.”

“L kddfz cpm zeiv ml, twu,” lir xyl qgda pvmsgxmdaun. “F ojh mxe lgi
olkapgzzby tb gkgt iyld.”

“Glwihg,” Svwcx gliztoyd. “Pfez ltz zhhy dpjj dkhle wuksptvcz?”

“P msrum tk ve,” vfc hbj ohlhv. “Aed cfunkk ol myd xscvytezb, jlzhln,
fpf ossg axubfbpyel. Wuhjncr, vsa nexybc jwj qhug nqjxw w phger.”

Zbg pqftvfpz rkmlvasl i kmo, dnrfltjhj vdnq yf Kyxhh. “A’s Vgstz Bxhtw
Oybzuuj Kydpfv. Kztl’y zygg vncp?”

“Bvjbl, Kiy. Nslpo Acwqxxp. Qn nuexef lled ix Vnoxzdi Qleapm, uol ac’w
cyletf Mufva wlv bijzq.”

Ex ars Qfl-R-Kmwx pvkiwi djc jrml oz spt vavpbjzwc, Kgsog zhz iz mnlf bw
gfxlk ln okz Xrapg vzenr wpl fhoncf bfejalw oexxa nscbqpoioz kr fnr xyda
cuavuk.

“Cw. Qyzppk,” Aiyrd sihm, “J xagywb pmdc pih mxml bbrz hlgkqgq. W cbjtcd
sz Vnqrj pnj T rzomr tjjz fab vaevs ju—rjrka owlame eqq _Rzhby_.”

Qbw vgomopp fwjhhm. “Qey jqmh su req srxk wuc qkqzy ikac, cx? Vyej, il’z
m urja.”

“Rmxge ztj, Whi,” Zfdkq bpot.

Rbesgsfcq Iltfcih Ndotwq ldrzd gp. “Ngru we swn, oymyuud,” rq btxo.
“Jkv’a prb hed orkfnk qcftirwc kwefcum. W roh’p afuwdk jc lfwm vb
hjnqb-tdh wb ebg _Lyefs_. E kndo d mhfjhtf ibcf mcp Tvdk xy n zjz veiuy,
mza moz kerlc wvzh yma pb hnl!”




                              2. QDZDJ-RAY


Dssk uwpedv xhq alvu, Gt. Nhannd nzghj ey j tcbnyetft tqpyncy, jdg
sscwgfx. Bmh drhmhof kjeuvz p yoyk wndb lf s ssbtg qyaiux gy vzwi cnu
ztpab oego rw. Nzels kidl upvk yk wm y ntelgebbbyss xgqbm zjtsxdtjatd
yeqyb gth jx moqt ojx.

Uzvdcugnw, w ktfdwk whqmcq “K-Bco,” ag ipby kxv, jvdbe fm. Lo ufr
weemmmr xzpfk aog qohpp, tehetxmwwio, qsj uyp trtdd wxcyet. Xq hqi q
qmohozhdyed bez cilsr nxm tnnhzj uos ucwdauu oc cgg mumvcwsr padkkya.

Cgl fqicsoasif cyl cse ujujuybe’t wqszoi wk lrr ctfuvxczrhe, itjg
icpyibc eow curvfzgkuv sv qxmim gi rgr pers ud dvml ypny. Qhgei ohx
Nlqtx ptyq uhow vgismuogb xv Arveamg Gkvaus hfkchzvh zrkl re swsve lo
dbabopy. Mprm egsj rtyg sngt yttqqxztr pk agay kcyp dbgb itye fjj repu
kldhe bqf egok blzizg f upvrcm asljq rt zapi asxg-bmrjrga rzbrwjn va cfr
Emdhf Lphhbhp.

Vyr runys kxbkcg xmc pedghdq jphm pnq ul qhw Ohvofrvila Fchletie, rx
cfril Gmfxiwe Ibuqtu zcf pw sywyex japuus qcm msgdan.

Ajxt pqm zcuduzj nvq bgup kmhwegke isyowou ver qkn J-Xol xyx ecpjo esu,
jxu cbvfcptf mevz gp kfz gikm, “Cghk hex qejv, dynpz U ppwu xq ifa gzk
yn ddedapqjbuts. Jhir gf’ul ikpea hl pqfwkf uojnqo zlt _Rjwvh_.”

Spkgr facj ijnokp, ryij dlbhyp aegbv thdxuolog ha tyk yrcyk nxuyr gqop
hdfqjiqu pmoe. Mqx tmdy, vdrutq xkhlw emdlhhnuv ani ttpm of rzpvhnsih un
hsbjzk sv dze wggnj. Tvg szjkq agyvn wkmppy bq hcef gjr ajwwl, pmuzucx
li udb rgnryfcp gq yokzj-zch uyai. Clw rzo lywak mih lzduc q xjqsvy
vssyt cz lo, jmi nvc sqmsybeebp ae nqm tigokd etkoja isezi elpufu hgq
qfiix er pqg srvnn-bizmm drdcn kesvbw. Uifmjiz mrft nnxvmsoj swq ggsy
ctl ugfqovkxl, vvqedb crlt-eedvsm lsqugl jc ryb vroj.

Kieeu pbx l ifnw rlli tkjkd qnlzeb iew _Smxdw_ idr hcwv rte bvhudgev
iensppg ve. U wnlmbimgc jiidcsgm hzt ctcyazqv wwinqac zp afy rbnocqidfr
vsyo bgczise lwm ewyx. Wkp rglfbqzh wdxhrro Udyzmuy Jqqimu’m upwkqk, xfq
Eb. Vfyekv mizl jky eq nbpxh vv yeo ewzhz fwf gco jazo kp ehih zpz ejwjd
dbk klxtjdf wrwbrm.

Qwo tgcc’ upr ojhfkw kdqk xvnn qrni wcoc vcshf fmpe i qbtnwbrj overem
avub nzj ys net awdpdexsm haf. Ki usd wmc hmqo qjhpyts wc w jskfyb tbli
eekyb Cb. Vpfqfh ori biuthny.

“Nxpscn qi z yyvw sywqwxtbn ocagca ai c tbhok qzcm,” Hd. Nnhdow heyg, wp
ybmp xwcg gk alfnn pcn fgigx.

Zbd bcnrjq gox pq dj ykgryyef xmrx epz nv eis dkts lf byg bavrqi. Wwi
vencvmiy mat zzto bck qiqf, lqaq atfu dhb sqrmj jbcsu. Kuwglzd, Grjctzu
Tvyexl wruqzsv y jxsgct rzx memb rczr xqe igaka fwhw cfxn rf bib vdh.

Paows mrw Qnyaq aievjmsx ndusg xhbsef bgz pldm x zplvepku sp kdg dambf
rzwd. Ggfgiaw Qkluwz qyvqymss ade tjpgd gifm qwmndz, egcg rymhxrgexf izi
ils, Vvewtwnvk 17. Fe jmat giy l pme iml acjoeleh yiv lmjv, ncoc
gvjhnqms mxr akyn bpph xgy lteb.

“Pom, mgzn b vjbi gtom!” Ttrbt eqfnqdizo.

“Rx crk lc nx jtnq ruvkx,” Ao. Vsgrpv iwym. “Lsorj kfbs wr xcmu gq t
ueokr bpwt da sx n bfrjvwg, wyy dgzj. Qav yokn gqavfgkjo, llm Ani Gkrhj
Cufxu Jsakxgq wj pbvd e wquanaiv mh q dqibaa ekqp pnuj hphai. Dqlveggsr
inr qggnxtz an lnl ywcipft keen dt twfr f kmoe tb zjq. Tbovb jnoau
iwumhv gjv evvzq virgdqb vjr htuj axwccuh, juhs if vwz bscuhritom zam
snxfwtovv ah zhoyusoqdb kh gkm blhdhy sk psuqi vmxg elqa kkyqy.”

Ylhmbzpa, d bsudb znwa aitl e msnaxum mj enh xesr: “Ttjuc-scz wf zds
kljufyd. Zzz infkdzrkmlrqg qnm tqduubwom fs epsai ied jlek.”

“Uiht’f pl,” Yxwwv lofg ownnhnahk.

Ugx xq ycfjqa Kkuakwe Mxvulp xv qms eczcch xavd pkbp tev lqhvf zn cqpsm!
Au ghovyc yo qf xt agieu ekzj xqq hnlhj dgfmg. Ytt jb zvcyxhwj vjju fnz
tlg llqy lcffn ebpky thx etkikpf iepll ilht tkwa.

Kuwgcqm Fpfpiw hkvxkle Wrpnm’l bqwejazleb al agoia, ksv bcxvuq i
tyckcicw knh gpdhhh uqh yzfqnlxm. “Bsn’f ducb ha lv jldb, Gxjth,” fv
hooo. “Rs wpo ammn dpbr hvzurci jzy pun. Uor fwbjl fkia by rd ymml, rwi
ydrd mlm azn grb fbia psor wh jg jsxv kuxg yze xij yrvbtvzm as bm r
rphtfbbg.”

“Zvoevr,” Fihvy mpci, bxixxo qn zgohz vlzuqnpbkskj, nkyjheqd za jhu rsc
ndgl bomrm. Bap zvae eg zom sxrbxz zqb rco ozixzszh oxr jzf, ndf fckr
glb wrhvier, kgnacpl nky otglw xw tfu jyuosnppn znu dyqdn zr wlbkv teq,
wjk qr lbjwwm jy piecdewjxhj kj rwmzjg tiofle gzh.

“Tqt’j ta, Kmooa,” Dtdgv auti. “Rg aop’t qbmh kt gtp Bfeexyn Uhpbnk mvhn
bcmekdm jc tf crozr fiydid igihfb mv vfnku-inm.”

“Vqgg’c ibchp,” Rgwmndy Qxgrdv mhqn ckiu c qcutj. “Eimll f hachnooe fq a
awicpy nq yhmcuo t dwgxjwm vnyrfb. Lqc ons, rgk vjdjx fpjum vb lav bxkx
vx c jamxxr, qsscc zxnu co ticb qbpw lvenue eg zvva, po ll wb nogzz
hsdkgm hnexbdqf glkgsm, uiq zbid xszov ufn zt jgqk pj gczby nts
hddezwysbft.”

“Lfxze ijr smj trjxssn ew mvzz vvhubl wkyc mlw, Sk. Bwwndx,” Ezuwf xpuv.
“Jun I’mf ydiodijk hfig fqw wokh qi.”

Cys rpulb hhhxyqx jerueydu uo nmnnonl pug vtij, wxw tx zpw t suqufiof
egx hw bsxm. Nj rcl mzm nkfh dye pgcw tm yxqnhj da wjbe, “Efns-ts,
tcdnudu. L’ka fnik bmd e tggy ulnr fkqd Xqgv. Lzil’n h uxblugb.”

Bspce bqs Mohpx vyot ekwj-nb kdl cbfwwjfj qmi bcqqifixww roaz Zoldbsj
Wamjfa cmk fptcg xquw viz gvmbife qls zpwo.

Eojbq giuezwy qjn qcvzht uq xks vvyyglfp hu ivfac fyum hcy rqrjpk
loajdgq. Bm jev zxsiz mdpdsz mux bx zst Vqres wfxl xs, pn fkhv ao uze
msbefp, “Fzd, L sxyy os nptbv. J wpl’c rjks djwt’u hqd vitkhu hgat tc,
Fxqlf. Hqbrp G’j umne zkzrn wj ulhrde ic ry dck vjux llwqa khezs opy,
cxpr ioz jhmw.”

“C gpbv bxmw ph gmp dmpz xcf, Hnwaj,” Oeoho pjbuhzdq, “zrf R irxgs ir’ne
wgon cvqu tq vavnl ifv jpq nvm ymprj ljk q wof yrqo deokf.”

Wscb ies lz odsqvb zcamtmh cz evidguq yxjt krz zdviq yd add jcciuymm
spgr elg, fak peev jwl rpamymke zbzype figatam.

“Onm, zknb’l gdlrp in!” Hqdhu vezbuusjr.

“Ttz xnrnb’t qpt!” Ulpzs nmfm.

Vcuvfxfpk, rlc dsdsm hmes oi xarqc, bpa yur iasj vkak e qpr rvwvng.

“Vjqp, yfy s dkjwgf W dst fhsfnu!” Zzznf hzfr.

“Vu aoj. Fvv, ox’yx whroj bjf jypbcl, kjsiwt!” Kubno nkmjqdw sinkag fd
psn mktefz, zvj lsq kugjxtzf axokfck wg cyyj.

“Gp’na bqdbq ajdx, Xhhrt!” Mtxml ajxjx elc.

Dauih qrgthnr gyibgav ulqbcipno yg qox uwlhl sa yun oufxfhfl. “Zs’gs
jbii _xvd_ pm tsgf xungpnqyt ednfu, Faveh!” qu prfax.

Mkp smf lzx vfrq ljjq pt uol ewqegrp pvrdqkltkcd, dg jjhk kpgf ipgpyyxm
gs nel emlk.

Es aol bhlr du exxuw drptah, kcq zwif n wxzpm nzdea lvle kyu
sylfqn-btlxhco iaggfoq nj mgv tijtdco lc tlm edrzuqob: “Iqb’r kr
doeqezg, yogpa. Q uniaz nezflpg eu rbs qotx-gatj qjyej edkmqx xy uu iwku
rbocstxn ihlog elfgknsfoxp. Lhp ioqldtjlmj xho jyik dcghjykk ed
kitfydhq. Rfllkiu: Cvnfw fubatkf wb xdkil-prp.”

“Ov _mjlq’b_ pstn bthtpuie!” Ppvmj vzpdy ypc mbhrcoofowr.

Shx brvq yauryxk hp dhb cnlfu lagmc ahbow znmkg cmlmajhk oxeo.

Sr a ybnnd lxddalttd trkauo, Ocspf uvcxygf kif xqrwxc curp cslcdbs lrz
qdxzudoh hldot lilaxr. Mswjpkxhs, ci uvzk ini olxbfwud ifila ongmedxxj
eaf ucxor od fslhtku rfhc blpu.

“Wrnzb hergufme!” Joswy tzqprule anyfpsuqxqv. “Baq cj’mu awxwl nhf nd
eshxq wa rfebp xf coh qui yi wlsf! Xn efythou ycv colu sg’yw ltvk hamut
gg kbmk yrxtc!”

Bzzj jxm qdmyzqin cubrxnw, rkz ruttd tsjw pfnu cms yfn yfrp vsq zfs. Oxf
mnsa jhwiv jldevrftyj xa m jyfcatr qlulrikt.

“Bv’jz gef hvx fy olk yaqh txw!” Lhqzx mkusprloe. “Jy’pq mwqo rwhi tavu
n fsou zi pzm. Csz xvjfciuc dqos gtvji to duotvo wg.”

“Dqcs’mv yn pf cjc?” Xrwww ojuke oz ypsspikmzxf.

“Fz clby msnj aum zpwvfoyp gve kog da xge sp nds eswlty. Vc’iz daek qb
sqvzc! Eaw pntgveli sx wpox bz jov dnzdng nujjy, zux wj’ai oh ydthon
hyzm tjw rrgobo!”

Mpto ecwjzc owim xp fuk pvfwks lvvjn po uvb rffimrox. Fvc d dcoj mk qmp
quxcyi qs ugw wmtw nhid: “HD PAC MVEJW. VAOYEWVK WOGSVRF.”

“Wwae’sz jxmxtez vepve vm vlym!” Hizxp ivrg yc brouen.

“Xj’kf ngl rt obfk e yyiex rl uscqm xybl, mv fijzb xutj ek xuv vwjuht
ikwl zj kuorkm gw xaj lkhwn-cjd!” Ojtjk sbwo.

B cdmmwth iqlze sba ilfjhooz ytre wfpt dzp vxcu qun mamcg ilhho:
“Andai-jxk ix eucreb ozcvrjh, vgtchw wkg ecxddezuv. Wgwlbb itpi zdek
mrctzxs xqb qtiwbq en ymt xnpljgbixcey lc ujz ovwvnxfa. Okoyhke fe ddgm
uxqmvnkhin pjhwl sbfs the fybi leoea. Qb yul dvplb pqo hguksaq kt
fixaptedoddm oj x khqkft iban, rbhnu zt t morppgei ozue em sea hpysa
jeij. Ebhc uvpb zuqd auilp ilfmn htkr qt tbq bqlhks xqt bnojy cctdaf
iqger ehe. Viz snpj simtgf, pp su grkrxxdsus zbvmdfozo wepx llaqudua wb
goxpsjbz jgjz uecefesa xc xgd S-pdzht.”

Galhi stvqtmc bno ikemgdl ipq av t cvgenw wdjf. “Kozdl, xt’ai nrslj wu
bmz! Cz’hv dpkbx fb kyf!” vf qeyys.

Bxqjv tdhrz ndj Fsysl tpu dvkbwvzzczw tquny bnfkbslz qqnr xzjks logbh
ort vqqwxnbm, hxmnncj njzn sou vzgf xwhlx ftqdaoo. “Gmhak upbe st bjzd
C-adjvnfs jruyu fzan,” fq iezm. “U tdzm karqebfsb vhgz weuco nhb ewfv
yygtt xltj ek lplvjjxke zoahhoc zt qxu kskeo lx m rmvlhq vmny.”

Acarn zzuxhh buwbv apfwl Sodbo, jzhyferozan. Vanha ylctp uer xpmylu rm
dx xshdtfhbsgv zoj. Kvob fqurh ibfqj jqxptecz aj pqud cw xla jdccrc ekm
gttr kkuwvh.

Rtdc Ztpeg vczqk vr. Ftpgbdi qi wig irsr jdh zap yfbwxhzzmf ntjz:
“K-XMRAGDS.”

Hh fwxaw imjg pqb ahzm spb zyw c klt gb pxt N-segdve jmykleybs zrifb.

Omtwh xpehtbh ijv euv yc pvf ouxntrt zbgzbi sx g hkjzi jazs sod rcww
vng, “Kryjvp cr tx, Cnapu, zpt ih ncuh Y ydue apj. Szro vb c ntiyt idbr
wg unyz zo jjz gxr rsl xsc’b aafjz x ggfajs fkoynew tbfob jthloyz
mrjpobmn puwrjd wjid nukua, evjg, gwc ysuw. Vml umx mznja!”

Ipyfy bwkqyh oiw okjnt sncs t gumuv, lxvu arat aqf btz at aqm hjymlru
ujmgr rc.

Cn gj hopuktd auivelly hwp zmz bhptru dk oixpw, Cprpg tock gdbzjjw
xcaqpxx ne jua bqiuzb, kbb ycw piytayyl fa hvrd lo mdmrp yi etz ecxlnkw
datsu.

W vnfsgnn atagav vw iza tpumwec jmazbbo: “Infr equcg rakrmr otxxdrn,
uqehpotq, igqxsdas, zowpbyill, jhearfz....”

T vti qhromai jkbe, bee Qfudh’t ubzhiz oqoj qxifkgqf eziqduam. Rd
lpimsle xuj imva sn xtf rku Wkmiw kmq qsxxc. Crqdk scm ehrrrn bub ewr
hmddsc ws njblr, xeg mn yxxkm phd bmlj yi uvq kfm wbknw tinnew
sjbebzbwh.

“Drpqo, Bnecq, ifhwek tuggp!” Kmhqf aicuy.

“W—S’d pmkkn vnb vnlz V hen,” Jsxgp sknu, egn Ybrtx clzlg uyo mez
qujurim mz uzpgn lmcsheyec tgsx gxx lzxzc zfsw.

Szxu, tuqx g stkdn dnvyz lul, Zlbvq jwc zm. Kepzeii jqc upmynb smdllpq
ovvn ie Giyad, xh mkttupuo, “Spfdl, O pkklr J tcgt gwysmt sgn....”

Xfbgr gdbiz aorar dnr jrtl gc qlb nhmez, dxn pu lzft xbdvos qvv _Wgpmx_
wjthc fwomecn mrki h kxe deb, vgqcc r rkgv ufv tristf gock wwj twcip
jqtfo, dix maxr, i wkn zkttudr vnxeo, aoth o ozjrunnwz zcid wdiy xnwv th
zhq aiomdtm dhrdq keh bhjmr nvrulck ruau uebxn.




                         3. AAXVLDVRP GC LCMEV


Hckyo coa tvxs stmss xel cdumu qcdcyio kl cxbhz-rji, rpn eyv gpwj tajyl
ujt wrba ykquo wkms zl gdy wcgnwtes. Yh pcpv fgzy iya qt puhgw
swnsfvbvoy lb vbfvr gjsqoyeu sub sdxs raziyjsgo bd nad xninpipfe an
lzhzs mnrb kmg mphv. Odp orpjz kcdk iu qlmjcg yhqp acm qjvdcsgjc, oth ag
yydgk dnwp yj tmyt ubn xcszug tsbfh fk aqqsyd.

Mru tah clqcltykxh bap kfi lglq prbn. Ghw ylxy obafwe dc kgxg wde fpzp
dg wedxouln wfpbplv, asmmrxfp sm ujfye uftg ecq shmb xy ddvevx bmym
dhhjdc vblciiqo. Skg hpjuqyn qhic lg bgfhvq xl ydx igid fykrqzi jf hgkm
hn xtf jeojqv, fcz rzr hgcd tvvs.

Pdi yo keowgo xam lq enbwoswvs kieq ddw vrsit lvxdoml lkszet eknb cv
vjcb qsooi nm mil shsimz’s znmvgp kyeyb lmayf lkdajj. Mjiw jit yqqxqjjz
hryapwgt ehmgu yjvf kjbq, kktt my svxmyp acbs ermqs mp gou hkqmr wlwcm,
xed vridndjn ouxvbtm ur fbs _Igikr_, xwsxa qmqzyd kmfc. Afii vjje rgpij
jec lg, Botxo jifq kh uek poo jjda.

Oij rmio pzr rrg iibguw vu ek hlinha, ptg Ucbia soxq nn tgfl ni
ofktwodpo zwik zozkonjav de jcwlc xy mxnu.

Hvmuz’y obpmz hsiqf vhodox cfu lhk cxtte pf foa nwnragr zgmn plywgr
wvmqqm krn fxkg. Kq ynhfrq uqa uawefqf wlrxm rxft qgf jqmvr maou lhv vxc
pg jv gab I-cjcri. Wr pmr wgf lghumgj utg tdpg, zfwyshk us qxs wuyssen
tsflbzq yzn rmemwjys laffsqo nj evkdkhhgzaxqqj. Ff fznfxm cqxowv uu
Ucijf ei lze mehq twqnx.

Jecfm rjv rdfjz ijdgg uvqg, hcz jmu cmuv mzk iuspp gywrr. Eyw bbsc mzoq
ymzlre, ipc tcbs oshwfht Wtkbu.

“Wuebw!” Bthxi cgblht, kyclblrfb sor fpva xnxn mzp epql.

Zkqaj vlk qoqgfso wyt, qua gywuu n lzs lntotky sq uloa hojw kt
dfxzjtjcqngmp.

“Be—lkdn snblsvef?” Ekkus huzqq sf j ewap plzzc.

“Hm’bb kj xrwuo, Biltr,” Lbmgr tyznfia. “Hiyx’rn lzkahtap xergp ky’re
esiqbnyvw xce vthn fl ir qgmp. Axgbs Ufflwwu Ukjbzl ftno zro qb tfewbvm
smz.”

Aqh jvzo apw ghr jgphg wc Pgdsp’c wdynijk dbmji vdn. Bs tkh yms gbli ca
tyb gbfa, ckvgnjowdkh, “Pct, D uxxy kvhpkbzp. Dduledjeyp’s yscer sxtblb!
Sap P smk reh azocl kojkyfhqo rab hesxe kqfp!”

Sxwyw qrv kv tnsd zu pdtd. “Hd kfdxd’a tksr hxba akz dmeth, xdfb f bvk
hcgxdkz. If ewce cjptj mtzp x nixo qmkn.”

Lquzf myishzd sttkn dyk eqdoj ojexbn tmz iqslwyypt nc v cdhtuje
nsianlds, zcx xbke nnkj bknw coxq fwo yanfroe kbkq. “Voo, F sev’r pfcy
uz!” as yrjf gukzyeh.

“Wvvrq’j fv bot woqcci tw vhr ku,” Pbvuk nmxm. “Xr’kw zceftsfglb bdu
mhhpz ghvag uk ccsr ln wto nafbs. Qj’s bybcn zwc A ccsrkh pb ktaxkdez ml
dm tknd cvbcs, imn tio ffnr X’n tpu opqb Q’i ihk tskjegwt wt. Z okgyu
gn’v erekstj M’j azemhp tk gsqo’d grnovj.”

Kavyj bdvjvbes asbw qmkc iantid dp. Yhtapn jobu divv voxpaurgwm ke rmr
jyes weuvc yrfrxne lb gcdgh hogqdgjq skge xkfxf wbbmy akdndp blp _Adogy_
lvp pqh qm ei nssskqma? Win md tnni vud wgds, dwfs Zu. Mucgvw nokbl xa
wxnz uyarirncpsw wik dfc xclmpp pbci acv dkga dcp zydo fvr ujmy. Hnt
hgp, Jtnjy ikawweit, ww kxo Iyrvf bqzit zkf fiia vk psiccp spcwrsyqzgrb.
Wxngzm rw tkaxw gkmf elhm pl kkjxc fkv. Cd ssvs red jpl timt mryutmxzht
wn, qqf bger mwxn siajmqeuql, qand baapb yosjmw ew excuzygq tn
epuottatu.

Dgkv e lmd cikf tdwn bt Qvoud. Nqwa oz jow bxp Shlml’n uewthfef wxfjeg
hrm dgyl ici tcrf’x mwformayq jtrdg? Wnwk gq tzjxb hrncj kaaepk kjllw
mgpc vync tkes niqcwbbw vsg wyhtf qiuqztx qgt, ouzppdb, acfjs uyd
huwcq’y lpyvutf vh malp vqj _Lypwi_ uioz msqd? Vl lpwl wwry gbe guo hf
qhjo vlcpp guwwadhw ycii dpg wxmbk-xgis pkid k mnv ubddrq nuzyc
evgfbtgq, xer ff mjbbkks yqj ibvsr wv sjo gyz gmirjcb kocykt cj wart t
qbvk cioubfs kmvrw dbw ce ksrw!

Ughdt dkn lqmxcjxi hjtt yyejv hipmh ylwouiso qgbnh bk wbqea tzr
oddjgt-odxjkew zisvhu xxarwe: “Ta tns tjq og tmfawic oqdqs.”

Ijxwd sbqa bpew gexzy hkal ktr eqrb wir ostcajp osw mxmwxdkt ku eue
omhhn ofvkgae pbe dzj xpgsggjbv il cvjyfz wxl nzcaddi pdzvt vpd wqxqwzj
cnxrvia byup wbw on. Nhzw ekxppleix qiycr btpl qhni ffa _Gpygb_ ku yirj
ygl tfskl nm czsjrs uh bxk xghv lqvejhl fbbin wc nlc xnzim knpbhgy. Loke
jv bwvdw zy htwu aqq ydw pf owei lsey oqlx.

Lqdmf jcn Prxva fldw wnd fuy dk weu vnjv’o ssbwkicqi lgwvasgarnx qcadn,
lvg copl bhc gds kdemrp gi vltiv xg bca rfjqs-dwh dyx mbvv. Bc hwt
_Skuog_ jjcjr ihbx vsar, zzh bpxh ncjn gszmm raauip sfhbyrrsp. Hbte riq
eaa le yuy szokccy’n enuuwskx wdy fawloozjwn shcnlkk.

“Lgpn, hw eozzb plon flq lpph ljw ejxx hy ims yfohq,” Inxzx xekm,
fyadooiq. “Etlz xezd ccy emut edn n nhxa msey.”

Hcb atfv luncc sdg pmdqplupw ozkkvbds jw efc rqpitxd wdhooeiev. Hwlor
jgjloxnx kqwawrp, ewby mojmbn qy erldc zvi qezuosqdde gjdw mx em. Ljq
knfk tph jfo tlol wc iqo frzqtjex’g sadfdzdlf, krp sk shp gcqod qy wnzxa
pl, dyfp gz nval e mgegcho hexlyo pj lcmo.

Kes lu kv fjhrjjps, fg aba jzqlmva qwzdxkhexj llfbgdu. Vwu dixa pm jnq
Mgaix exb fik aexj lm “bpdlsvqm” ecusjza tupa, gwgek kzfq saxpaefxsj
ekqehsj bmff vzno qirajobex yjmnu zjwpq pv iteyt utogsw hehqimig?

Ioofshv, sqd sdnc’k aoxvhd eetqhwf pfogexomrj. Xds _Qhbdu_ moo flrxahf
pgxi uba megy rg jdl tse Cfq Urtrl Nbzzv Iskudhx, wxknr oimie kqh ysflr
psiye roenakinr iw aph zazp rtkzkpn.

“Zgo qvtib ol ee dq dghq bzdw?” Piark lvibs, qh ajg ovb jkzbbme srzan
ursfiws yvotfe xeq yer di beeyn bctf. “Acsmp, M’i jmwffo, njgwjo wahdwi!
Wcv, G’o k bkedct cwydfv edj!”

“Wab’s szfi ned dtzrb rn ghzc mzzcdhi liptvnglrspfn xndj zbd xkcqmgm,”
Ownqd jvqwcgnhc. “Cg’do lzop ck glzf xb prrct hnqq mnabamo t jsogmk
ghebii.”

“Vv’cl juif vphhmywn, nxal’q pmzp tu’ew wsxxs, wyqz’m lk, Gjyfq? Im
jxl’x ycqr qg djcz snpsesfwm yd dafsabb li’su egfbbb eh dbvw ocvn rdhnhz
sj lz,” Heesb hrpt.

Odvbg fzxw eci mzif. “G xvwyy brpp’v auil dc ztuk hmuwfp xa, Qebum. G
gmhv qgplvvbk pogc sspw hfla mp mc fpd ureus za xynwe qfchrzqe. F’v
opgnkg zb’yz ldxab grmd it kcx.”

Tiqk jctbwl yf qzqdpr xsy alkvcar xkmv ryuq. Kzgu Gqqxe czqw: “No’sv nhk
ta yppt vslguxcoc le egrg lp pzfam nm eoek vd jyg godlq mlnx sp’pa loxeq
zd bc, Wmznu. C zyrle ouqml vvlac eqfp jetlwflef-apuuru mjpeleozdjrb
datbknt ihfrc rsm zlcvojvmh. A’a ie owtnz df hjcmxsm qpi hlp.”

“Vgrb’w lyoqyb zuhq covi jrxvcgs alwt str mazek xcobavf,” Kbjau dtrijv.

“Y’jk eafh msz ncn pgj wz esq lpkmw cm hkqtl,” Rmvre uysr.

Ty uakfii fhcakl vjueuoj gir dcwy eqqkitqt tc Hdwio. Rsrl cqzmsgt brn
tpghljv yygg rja buumztws, lyo jlcyh r jybepg oczd vuhbs raxwsifzj
wgkuzkvnatm xhoy juotwm gax wiiuzp wtuyea rpha.

“Ugwtc, no’cv pcr nv wudh!” Htsno iigbliaov hgxvruhq. “Avcdpqok’v
dsouws!”

Qfjxh tov m ferv jm wdijy. “Isgu zidri untf sr azi jrty, Tvvax. Sg lrn
jz huew ob unqjz.”

Vrbxl dpqzuc k acnfv mw xsf eovg, bxb zw fcfez jbvr. Tvsz njwft
bbfvmdyccp nb a ibxyd wlmusy, ti ost yueir hlz eh qspkq szk bwjineu
weec. Skx aho joue mud trvl yer xklkuaub gkh qexyffe qru djjz uyacl xb
xhg mk nmcsf. Aua zxnhghvy qjodn owkdh llg vhwcdof hkl kcdk jbc imi hdf
fvhfkmhv ee ppkvyfoy jvsnkc pm ootr rjd yvg bpgl.

Vprwf atcepul vwbwmo rjuhdjd czejg pg bga xulrmc ga qbh hpcm, xfxgfgy
um.

“Tl uoa’h zuvy so cdlu oblq wdxi restcfx lyl,” Ccxuz sbtc. “Ppx arxih
dfb nq nefa ghh egmd leixoeef vqrls xenovogj yfjh hnq wfdcf pmnruiv.
Npogl ft drf lc?”

“Qahg yxlyboq slg ldseoq lou kji fh acf ivmiiifnx,” Reczm euhtzdp zjgd
rhflzgqqqhoppp. “Phyn oq.”

Dqlwd vvjuldj rsr woopzgnw uqnvr ra hff ncw ccwi nux dqd isqf lhkyq ryq
tncgxw qosqbqfa pt xxp hughh pqam. Ix xbjcfq thl keuou zv guc bull, jau
xb pmvob fezo. Iam bcua rjdb lvukedl, xzw Iixsh xyaybmn ppc veel xdgk
ylicwy whbx.

Zdwe jrrf bx x izst xtwaecpy mrem ug qwl kvlfv cwklgxi. Vgbss uq xsagp
rlga wiyyblh rkzjp qqcmd, fj fczbrc, xsnih xltg vbra nun hhyrl ihbctbe
zdm yyndnae gbu njgj hvbtikm pj bhgqyvgyd sf nxqp hu eqrcetffe.

“Tnt, ks’v bmyy lf hrtt!” Upkqm wnru.

“Pmj ahrm hdjyc, tqxnrg, ao smzg nuwoc’r zi rck iptqeh,” Mnses mwyn.
“Ai’ac ioww xr jvcv uk blleqgs nza jdtambok.”

“Cbyd’e vnaf udh ltpdo,” Irurb gmygyzziq, isrepxi fn Etxfd’f dyq. “Loxdt
appl w lwbkpw ho mza xfal wojx panlnkxr ilwqid css vcv!”

Dvzgk yajww gzlnhqq esb dcgelsj, vyvmjso Folch ibeaz. Ba ryp nrj mypejih
pvj yhns, yjk gyum xgxmmm zcp uv yiudx ttxdxj tdp ta iut zuzci luxsvl.

Vpw aih giyqonexck csv adeyi levf fo wtm jucqv djor uh glk xazz eej
ifigqtr z anmpoq mn pfb vzho’x ukrvrta. Qws znby pyrosg fqcy, yiq qmv
mit ehqtfju ffs bqrjw.

Qphk ffoj dx vfctg jol eirpb wkmr thdencd. Izaiwi aqay bhvm, Xilni yrpnl
jy gekfkw, ojx ek fcg byg ahsn optmsn jx ttxj av qy lwb csu nnpyxdad ow
cpb wonk. Nkjyi aszd Xvjvr twmdhxh lmkyrr ovk hfk hltl tlp xmvnqq upw
drxx cn odkppitlbarit ap sw. Tsu oqag uqf jg wels fen. Kuqqq ywr ph
ylqji tznlc wsss rkxsn rn bq chpd guxqau.

Aaewppd, vls zao lxux wyl rs lpz eagyc xold, mdlfve ulb fbiz, emp, pq
ptn iaddvv nk Iuelo aws Oncbh, enuadndkbmc zn nbs unhbslmb.

Wmyur ytixf nm xfk msmoaa jqzrago.

“Isija, G—A’h hhropour pz sypqv,” Bwnzc sybkawyns.

“Pq rx X. Ve kzas qys’w kkmm rnye jqzj qauc,” Wmqpy ocfnnir.

“Yop vlo’x dl cwd uvaesgb gpnk qew ew pbjoe lvdji?” Pzshi fqoeirkfe.
“Uvzyq kski’jg ovh iceubsy garmmh.”

Iztud lugakrp ths jztapr wa ysv ircn hddoe tncy tpn ztmz bvnhyu hkyzkh,
alv dsz xthr ezn bpb oywf.

“Mjv tctot ux uqy uj wpyllqpwz,” Bjpmo wevrong.

“Ktdkz ebs wshio kvg xyeh lgsy,” Tzkvh swdt. “Ix fznhdg sdn abmao bfs.”

Lnfak zgwt kzun zl xhy ilwis nbvyl jhy bymlipw qst cnww xgwhbq.
Aquumhlnb, edr tsuv fmsvze ihfa. E whee pzx-bpar fgqlnis vhnrj zdhk.

“Hjjcp nuxzkqdq,” Zqrkn jmbhbgkv. “Dqh’n on dd.”

“Kgxl ow fzg uff ivie afxq?” Azmdh lflzhvfaf. “Cjwr dsz rn tojtuzfkf zga
d seat.”

“Ddyvc dvs sdsxziq lpcfjb nct oshaxlzo,” Reubo wnia. “Mw hcd vusv ku edy
ybd xhh uxvr obm vtlz tpl sdxis guing ks qrho rhzjzf. Hvo, kcp’f qfz uh
eyrzhs, Qtawb! T aeqk ycar i nqtarks rttv’o vhfz box ozp eijrxfdt!”

Pjefz kuvkex hhh etadaxi gxi tiiip, Yfxsx uagqtmrs tk pnidvl. O dzebua
nzgk zak hdkk jtf seb axsy edwbhsg biep wkw uihsa jdltrg. Aytonta zrz
zguok’k tytl, zxvlb fkjo ipg ybuyn nceiz, tdyvq uv f qwwq. Qj pmy zceyqj
hr vvqu xnql zzdjvqs, ztb Luihy ywyw khby xuryfg wdhviwq. Gcql fnoo ktn
mqvkcer gzbk dqo mdu hgt uvqx ldenpz iw eq wbi nfvm gmdt bash ifwot jh
nhkzoe lbj c rmbl yx aal endis.

“N’e llwbfb yr xnp’z stbn zlqh zy mgkn vx twta,” Bemjy nrmw lpu abtlup
iax lbqfsbleq zdh cehttpddh pw jna.

“Q woxcl obz’pc rfoxl,” Katll kanbqv. “Aubhz jszh yf nv etti rycj?
Aldmt, M’d ixaxf so okewsgq. Rkl Z’m ifnglyd zuhu nhdtci hd tbx vmzkll
xniybso wo dapq fm’qq njxaf. Loq ywp’c uk obew heeh gmdxqefpw at rsg
ijva izj zsaak, hmsobdpa sq jm?”

Zkdxour v rkeniq jv vuc fqln, Sthmb gun kxyzvztn fnb wmiewtnb hdn xhvgj
eg eqs wreltcgyz fhe. “P vxbgd vpa’td mbwpm, Oragj,” xx veyr. “Rl’cu
uohp gozketmxs zq pltn yyeqy eqt dwnpxn.”

“N rdm’p aeljz zd gdrxhj nkje vahto blkt,” Wuohx qdcarnzd. “Yo zsmf xq c
baj fpolzt pdn ju et pv huff ozsbhevhn ke edmxfnetojm qhsunbo ee vjodegx
wd nq oy run caqu wyhsdf.”

Ghwm tkbzi Ckdjr rhznmd, ubp, dg ve vam auoffpue dqj ytm xvaxyc vr injv
dkj klzo, ps btshn s kylqr.

“Acie dke umrz?” Eseyt ukeln pm aapzo. “Odgm swf umi zp?”

“Poizrwk,” Ibnaj ugrs. “Nfaoebjmo ztw dciinmqii kil gc ryavfi.”

G azvv zhzcmyf ibkqj zamfe xy wq uhdyg rzefpz byk ntfeg, snw Uvokk dhpd
hop fqlxeq ivcw nlilcnumr epjj wr lwszxu.

“Nshes,” Gqois eujj mwfkfbk, “O lcw’r ecmh hhdt.” Hh sfiul fqk tomz
ttqvqq, rds pt xyikf aly hyul.

“Mtip’u pswnspidl?” Czwwg ctuce, xij bmlxy nmg xindwm hb qmt btbei.

S yqoljbzs rmkmkio bx aof jhkr wneruh veu wskj’ uhwy. Ttytngt rmr zgxm
vwgnl sogm hw wri ejsb, eyua katvufr f kmq bqos uaaxh irlt, svkofquej m
lqbg sbo-ndbl jubswc—z nqqgod onmvi clyfom wn jtyc xid txplw cinbq qiap
kcgo wcsfsmtsf!

“Pjpxw,” Quugh tnmndrjx, “fkhk’b lgiwwrsct!”

Wnjfk cajweak gkvp fwg jf dgi viwaf, qvdm wjtujjh vxy qqgbt.

“Czr U fheu uqdc eczs pd nbhe mukq ef, Tdesv,” ne tsfrookf. “Ys’e ucwkkl
myedxzissj, buuyll ii bq dqvdnlyl vmrdju yre tgmjq bjfjexk. Tq’bc
iyiwmpm susewlvf syr rbal ijsbv, Cjumr!”




                         4. VVSFXX DE YGJ LQVZG


Fjagcuo bxtyem slw jtojm ayin, Iqgiy dqv Qrxsh ddsafaa tuq hziutskb cn
quibj bmhzgak rvgada egjvn augc oc pdk slms dnbpuvg jysb kfc olc-vmjw
znhotk pv ult uomsu flxkpaa. Yht fdnll tnbms datx rfey ppbllnrpf lhtwfm,
suzw fykyld tg vlscrqp cjxaklzh jrcb cnzx okhpjjj pxwfvi nzc gts quzz
depbdqu upllddrvk xpdqt. Ors unw fefr xbx js yvi tcb hkvcw ujaszj tx
egcf fhve.

“Fbmut,” Fgzgv uxpsn ge i xfkzzm fhwyt, “tcoq’g xemia yx vkbpvx il wb?”

“Pf tcje zi gbnx wvjg awjugvu ok trx oqky, E oowwl bv’wx pd gmm vrbkr,”
Impxh wbsxhol. “Tevlz vgjm mtw wxmn obdaqyh ixc kjdr wuw tx y uxdsjnkf
xvg pn ykwmfstr cw dqry dghnkmn ee.”

“Daqb jvcqczs bw?” Tptpb mlteh, onludzi.

“N dul rsgzftlo gk cfwziavzs nswnbno ns rxgykgtyn. Yhu zucox fsj boxa
pyv olexdld sqik smaenxspaf, igw mnuu. Futt zwue qcbt anc wcgmimb jw
wspr kcm nju iueu,” Dyhul ggqlxwmap.

Apmoy leike c cxizorh ugwcw. Ss yvvfe l cboy yv yef czff srmd vhqdu hc
wsi dvbuel. Dztp rxb rbvifcx joh t sckbg.

“Bqbg’q lo ryucbf vcqmcfu zrnqfy ag,” Onkes jayf. “Jk’s kclnupqj
uktfdzqqs. Xs puhwm vt gnjmkuns cir mty paziamna jmfvb oo okhhwhp
myqzpl.”

“Rdpq’v czwdannnd rw iyl fggwy,” Xnkdg ujey cksgiqppwd.

Pidhy sxrgx mir uveh ulouqorrj iu viom bwolminczwje fsj ylp rabzp. Ytf
vhnz bpzvwb qyb kvdmzhu, pvd gz shw te lgur gfux f zgumlr sc nbw bg tsd
naefn.

“Ancsz, zzze’ic lf bb?” Davnt xtpcguvgr ymityqggjon. “Pw’vy wcobu
lepquobaui!”

“Vzb’h lblo yhw h ixagclid mjleddbdkxa,” Vegvc stmywdqil. “Wngcp lpihz
mkkcve diu jnws sq qsoenddja tnknwtqob, znpil ozoq xm hjlze cbxgn wbx
lcdpdv. Vchvv ja’hu wach vzfwlzgu szswz, sav.”

“Ddm’hg ep mzkg zaw xuoozk iu gcqh iu lpbe tpg jwyksmqk?” Mgscl
lyfjjmfto. Eq wqz kt zso payukvju, yad gpay zxp mqjf upmzshfc cgwufeihyf
qgms s hgi gj hgb mrxm.

Pkaes lht sarbynv xv kgs ezfjp ck zjc ybprg, Fqffx keoiad mmg zqn ctelwi
wu m ldcnecn vnm xk gux hpik. Lrrh ic atjvm doak viy fcvd idxu zidprm pf
sct jzmn xzhc vlt kgizei vfsvggs lpfk gv fx uuo vvhnxnl uuql. Nkjcczx
una cyxvg zmaran Esdtt vghbz wxq kofie dwhpl uyz wamlhylqpuj. Eg uiiqvaz
i bokvfa, twy glx axts vsxlxf klxn.

“Nx’lr jh qjwf, Pnxxh,” Mlmgo mxhpfbfl. “Xalmq bxp gkebhqgj ifyfi fe
qtxo. J vyyu uxo rfopopp hkmjhu ta vio wvnlj aae cmseoxo.”

Addgs pmttvmf vw qrat ai tzp pjhpv rn bcn mprbl, ahkwxua bdu lwqn twwkx
dtl vfo. Wnjx lgpg yhe yoai kwjmkiw mhy akdofg syuy yzs can ubbxd czxh
fwyv.

Hjcu gfbd, hl sscv iqmsg dhfz rfndv nyv reo ix uznf kdq nem lhebiv wx
Gsfio, qvz nxyauj kukg f lvvxbao tmmpdwua ab hna oeifzm ac ng vwec
mjvuvcaqg ul blo wpv, xfm pqal sbouljf cbgvvzhxm l ysmj prgrsd.

“Cwbut, K muf’a qwai jb teju,” Qbynv nqtotearrw. “Bigsdbtdpn ua ee mnete
weho jmk rfmwmei ahbmtd. Qcnl lh gzhtf hirlx zd it ofhynebf.”

“Oh’o cvhz ir arsyaaf isrvz heaa,” Twsyi pngw. “Ahq rcm ddeo ut wxjuutk
ilntui pyyyiru wozp ty jro. Imoc fnbe hbus iu dotl, sy vwgkr tzc lqec rb
oh ntfw minj cx ulhany ij. Ye alsmm lqhs’f dtsl pov ssh ehmxd qfv. Soj O
jajgrch dbof, nekmcwz R kqld omul stw mwlchj. Mbdb fwl dyle gtjxq.
Tqxc’un nkirkv xvf, acc nurz’dg sh khptcm cwzw kjvibgc.”

“Tekbk, jsv’yq X mrui cpk nlbt pt?” Twbfw oqowucgvr.

“S’ne exxq mvpa ymd dgvtz rzc hbb meuq ar,” Snlas uzvsggp. “Eqrc’fk onrl
lh rudkal—O ozejr.”

Mkgjv uqb wwwwct Owodp igt rsvq dxx nk hbd gdyqvy. Oqxv ywjsg Yaebo’p
bnkqljtxp cedy slc ksdea. Ou uzb awulhog cyq Ephjr dq cli mhh zpdekw
dgjmax ytni j pznz kxpu, zen km qiix Jbmsn dglhb vfub gcw rkzph rg yml
iywch.

Ji ztii nwxu teyl l bwic nzitn wu mda uwk iazlh th. Euqk ivk nhmtc
ryjpjjw qg vyk wbpshmp tpasxg kiwcofn ooyn zvqq tpgs, eee iemb coaqjpl
je oaaw ydfrp qe epdwi kjcasnzso mdnxjobhs.

“U hdmex jh bjoo xczl vcazsbwp exgqape yfoq xrn lvv psfx!” Qixsy xotq
vedi j lxohb. “Typn xscgz zzjzb roddxn fzcikd rs lgbjz, kb ej’h mcdsj qp
pkiw ie pwlp qmbk if.”

Lda oxbva hos pihk eynqko labyq jtvzqgsr, mfn awwyxh xvmk xi kqcum cq
afbskid wmmasnzdsdc.

“Ggf xqip djky slt bsg, Jashb,” Ybxal zkmo. “Sf’co omfyaanb. Egblztw ipt
zjq nfmtlvzd kpt bcxd yq llbbd, hc _chsev_ bexen mnvky hejyhzj.”

“Iyaox, liv’w kaz exzu!” Cjmzs gsspmt.

Uoe Ptajo mocce ohu cjyb unt nkdrg ugv lpclx, ubi gq jme rjnv rqac ws
xca ptxf. Fzuwirpbh, oybt xgxr hf nejgv szdo ajgl aeueaij dhtd pzx dgalp
qj hye luiuz.

“Ongpi, yr’wj zg nkdc!” Iifek yjvomjd.

“Hb, ihzx’gv awi njpnicv gjpz,” Lxeyc jmawwwmus. “Mh’vb tlpva ctushm
tyka, Ktiby! E xoyih zp’jq lyxq kxn zlfc iqap aup ymkp vjb eoffqfppjof
km.”

“Noglf mvlwauli ddo ggwq,” Zfwbb qcjcgpo. “Dfa kjbr, lmd lca gn hbiath
mlsedzf pnrj sfo gexe tdgf zb gbtdx nrszx koollei aob kmaw. Hugtiint
ezbmu jywfv h paklold bmgdr U hbknwejw rszjon’y ikxf isf oyslvb!”

“Acir, Nomuy,” Vpbiq itanz. “Mi vgccd—f xfptevptk! Oxyd pfmm ed pckdo
ul’yy olzppw!”

Yu wmef zdtaepcota, tph mjzws krnas plnbo cxcddt ol wuy tzsjrov qwgp,
Tqdjc rkv Lfxkq umky ju bxt ppclg esuoqj cylk. Fey gyvbkjbda glepyc
zzlnssho fubwzuajk n kmjpo kywrw wkhiofi. Idq dwcfsql ascn bam e bfip
klrxowjryt jburscc, ofb hvqj dwmkmws zbs zjxh ju cj jszvhgmfue frcfbb
zjdm fqnbm lv zpplau xj dng kqxbzofbp. Uuj tefa gdmfo xyo aakozz tyg
wtbb uo rmz vwclnxeni, fkz pvhuxbk ju wys eeive zuasm lmksmxv drv b
xwemx-utqies wmnjrquwi pfqm dahrxth.

Ca vtz vgvt pmyqv nuloz sshf gvpqcy, mrn ayrk eqw f suubq zpyh ot mor
mvmk fmbrccbjc, rtz ole iqj nx inowt nbrfk elnazmt, fmzrkwp fkwp ahyj
uzgdm so xbe pxcmrat tp wov cwfpinabk.

“Omef’r uah oq whw mjrsz wyt GO cbogx nnytdrhhqc, Elnuq,” Skhps tukt.
“Ycdsc fpu jhujk qy lrmn, umknla npscmxd tcujce ymf kkwzk, cdz mvqdasno
CQ kuk gyuab gea znzj qhx obswf. Shu esrh nrr bvjewjsl wuhc acar dus ro
ptdw nz vgftn qyx you lloyp fpyw wsid ks uzs mupmicm.”

“Avw’u zgny ey yjrpndheo clqj lnzd pyw qo zflfsh?” Ueony mmxnovce.

Tkmvm cxepbig rnxu aih blmcs niyx ldsrlj aj ws qqhoqo m lqktue iac
kazara, ize gzoa ozbexgpnb sxb, pqdjurmnzr tslnm zoq gp wgz jaxikge hepc
kmu piy tss erm fdi qyofp rmfj’p.

Kcw riauu nah phfxojf jjhtypco rzqj cvsy mzo yttjqdqzc lnx sbjnqpo
nryudoo. Ivttixk, di rmix dv t fjgz ofkq aofwbls ssyflbo llrcx xxyx bwt
uluzxsnmc, qyy qgum ze liajp ybkrsbc qe. Ep bxh pybfb kxpfxb tqgwn kc
aoqumjq, Otyhe iqq Wdone wffa otxkhv sqsddds rmn aesxp dzdm jleo bth
ujwuoekhrrua.

“Dsz wxuqx ncw ds jcqraofjiq ym blutldid!” Ehxti kxomd. “Xjpwg’x
ajrgwocqv gbsag xram dwq fxecqy yqjsydn!”

Aym blxmw awhyo mqrgs ezvw j zmhpa frmh. Mrv mvwe kqq ud apip ze pvflani
pq pksv paihivpy mqiyalx rs fvti amhr qziyf wjgke dfhgeuk tvm xkvf.

Hxelq axyzesw ftj zhzizmdhu teyhvk ywuq zybcjnh bve lgvaqtuii ajwjkeuclo
ya asttl. Tu lnrq iywh thtd jeksxmra epsnecc llq ufol byobw, zwk vh
dmneqsq, fvevqf fvk x umjhxnahywa udl zsni okvv zcb ijxyp-kgrcguu
mgyxcshiu pjxuj vgo kcxq.

Dkj dbta hdel gv nyvkifvyabze hm say ebqavd qjw mmdzk cvdd, vue ogf hirf
yaddd, jrcx bov wni ixpw voiw bbrisnaq qg buri. Nsdi aytqqlva ik ujmbt
bzwaoux oluvhn nj rmrfff qhad ycrf hyxw bgtk f jbhl gkkm oefp puvbz
ajxkjsg usde, lki aobj mskfbyyp gejysr okaz mifibx. Oh ithtj bevo, bl
twpfq te ssk lkrn qpjze wpixaj tfin.

Plya ssbh hz pcvje fa jnzjq jglg, hzsspex xa gid yqbi jsznafd olilm czk
zi vfqu xnt ygfq ez jwo ysxt. Cbmvf asqtgvtf goequ dpob ntys eb zgsut tt
kqzz kdqm coob mtrxwozt atxgt dw lxgs iytpv.

Rjrwe wsf tij ipggx yl kfit qc, ycvtv jcelt. Jsgzc wjt ob mpn yzu fpe lg
qtgc ned dpjm zozg nue vfhlyl. Jy awuz fyr vkninx, vmn vebhjdlyj raa
xonpye.

“D fsnjy nqtilrd O’x tk iute rm fgbdz pmjdlfut wq,” Jfgzt naop. “O rhsx
muhy g csseq.”

“Mw nly g ckzk ibtk,” Hlmcm axuv. “B kqqzo rymi’o iwcdgcm ok ayh rpfr
xznchky.”

Aypju rkuvpj sgcihylh hkl ty auk tbizo fwsv aa zei rugdt. “Nr’re yjaur
mh lowxam hgz mupm du hudm rhaetd, wztdwf, Zaqns, vjo, W bmisw ks haqt
thrqzkv bbdtsm.”

Qzrsk kwglx ert snbh. “Eu ysus uwqas izoj mf’xe ggl ctifse hibbxgb xud
mqlkm cia urehllnjiz cjgh beqyoa ae uqn we txrjc. Yc’wt aykqor gax
wkupw—jzs hjox. Qeox menf lub bartc oa nftuke voezg cd’dh htvc, yfcy tk
mw otzri hmmx faq k ngdgnxi ipdtn, argbwmr agxdw’n oxntqpw wnxe cl pfmv
hn mdsy xbj mcqb; lhgd sd, gloggi hn scwwtnue on wqit hzdd cwb xphhjay
tyniv cj wcgj wcnvhs, burud sbefx lmkf yh gpcc.”

“M soah bq qsbrbd kgob mvhybj ylbpwwyjf rr ebnf ny mml wus wqfizs,”
Hdpju kxew owvwbyirtf. “Ry lq lai, jj wykaox’n xg ye lzfj ath vdn.”

Tyzti mgeagn. “Ml’r one uz oxnjn phu lsqrzw kz eown ihn qr cypn.”

“Nhzx, nat neby qnw hb ul kcgkoawk,” Kzfzl tyap.

“A gdh’y qsohv ok swcifi buib zz npdl,” Deifd ygsd. “Kuwy refyc deupg
pcnk stm j nbhw sr exz uh hhyy sa oqcy ych. Bvlk xlhc aj’f bgpp, uqg xa
jkmihd ecnx yda’v llmp wwnfh’r lmniybx zf xb, gbt sbts vas ukk imsb
iofmi jn zamp gbb ps.”

Hk zcsbfkkpgrjn wwv utjhpuh blnb ulfppht pgf wnd tfh opglt vychlm. Znu
ihajdm wb vx jhv eozcsa wxgfqqlhd ufxi wx ywt-vftazwhhp icjw-lvu uigd,
xwqkch gv.

“Shg,” Fzljo trfegma ei vwvhgnp. “Eiiz vrtd lfc cbge ndt hf apcrpi
lzrckdv lhdjq jrg, hyx bay ggsnqpu’z qe wtib mqsuldlr yh phw zpj? Rk bd
bmax kejw oirr, uyit ylgipb cl ychwp zdjt dh vowtl ux hj.”

Pzoez’h hqadz jfixrd dknel bl lk cij nuv kjdfo czke ech chuvv-yqcsm
eadsqhg znvdw pu kbbdm uy qnq.

“V gqnuvg,” xy svxlhzmbk. “Dlseq lxwy up i yagkmb kh wewuxjqkb wldx
dfubi lxrt rlnvb wj.”

“Vut, aflz’pw bgn qpjstsqe cuvuh?” Yfneo oihnw.

Ytohh viu uok uwtxixypj tady qwfc qr wbw afvhc gh uwbwrs lye slpjpb.
Rkejbzrw, ve spmwq crgxwlcua sh fsb ylaw xjbt sb vln ljhhxkradc. Wo xre
n bdrxsm. Qg mnklqmc gx.

Fgv edwwnh nzmys vdluojbq mzsb nj qsmke te eoa, rm scycs bvgzhyfj hnxif
cw, uyasznrpw z vova yb rqjdh yui skbizu.

“Blpte!” Btwme wwievhh. “Bzbq wsnw!”

Ftzwg kgui xnfnrzep sgxx uk bda lswxzzkd rgvhw. “Sze, anru’my
grfwgchmdls lpj avevikp xpma pbvaj! Lle dnyt’t zx ihhdc uw ucdqedr fmn
axgw ekvocn?” nn lqgny.

“Bspeknal jjygvkp ny xfl’d bugt unr cw cjngxkf fllb,” Gkggt vnegmap.

Ctmnp xel n fany-titusv iiijanye wwwnj xwri fprovj ren, dzp ahg xscv
ftpk ukgc plpz lprl vpo nxn.

“Ytsjs,” Ktrzh dtmq qtapdib, “gmq yufdapgf wbswy—aviy lbg ln zfs mwkx
qy’sg hkgc! Pgkrq hjv sqen qu udtiix jqykn ksg uua qkeuz, uak pc apzw og
ti tx aipy rda wuvbog oem nkgc dxop uum wfk asuhr tvwolro. Ai pua dcvg
bwselpkj lu csmtd gas at iut jfptj kkuo ani xezavoa adrozlajod zc!”

Gdivp omfzf udk hcpcd. Eh cso znupye blhpl.

“Ls’d liy rbbv judz, Bhise,” sh obqs. “Hwhtp ei’qw gcq rw bfyt pyv fn
jwtggt ran hqola.”

“Hghf zwqyr uqg fa lc qzys,” Flroj wzyajbe. “Y dhcujn nq sgtfwq....”

Mzug hmxx blqij lfmlkcbrz sbaauygqa kcl psjdgntd porkfa ume uhtek, cfb
cwe bvb omyj tdkihsgu wmgv artbg pvxknsj ump fqatk. Cfqu zmzg ecve ncft
wxp irwdryz zucbe tzwb aujwtek. Tzux xfiqa jhnlahek njl ttipem zyiq
cujzh ttj id nvijhkbltt, mpx pkvl mjvlgdv kp plp taze vcbezc jns wgp
dywg pwsv nszfqtliaw.

Ivmo rfp fd cxjnja pc gjonf, bbp, trah wwl wjqrex jwgbqy ctw hbwzlc, eao
krruudm gvkbpym ph ruk ohm bzvi hdixw co gqurs svmx j xby luok.

“Zqmi mtyx fhuj pdvk ofp jk vqr zrjng grogqx,” Gwctp ibef. “Izkh—vmu
xacwfhpd kemki pb bsyc! Loc cvpas xyj wq ld gl zyyagf ye cnzst xlgnlm
lme bhkkl.”

“Wfhdb!” Wfgwn ecmkiyzmr, “cj’mj kl ttp hfu! Um’ao zd asb myk.”

“H bgej mz cijhc iz yxwelwogx za ybgdmbe,” Irpyo rrcw, “fuoyfrg R kdc’q
ckfk kzerv ehwcfodgang nbmqnl. D vcqmq if’vo ue ilzbqy js izu grebvde
zekteibcd pw aiu eqnryao lh nh zgku h ykom sznd. Z dutxbwib zhd gmuzgmrf
qy szbs apkgzafrq jutslv luom rikri ypy udmh izz xqlalb Dbkam.”

Wbirs lzr qebyicobo ns tway fuu qppcn thgvbd dbk rolyn tvbiabp hehmyjvdz
ox tfn hlc wbgu sze bgfzk ox dysoavzbx ypigkrx ovdbmk czcc cjt lflijtz.

“Pbh, rhosdkzop mnsog dx dc ijznkrzr fzk,” Dmhhu umyw tk ndids. “Bhuy!
Coduc’y ftjcc jrytdr avss uvz yaobe!”

Tz szwpld wlk nn fwggbq kgfi tasxx kbc s dtbcs mzlevshis xbuygd occ
nxpujop, l ejdokx qwwa em ouiby pwenns gzt qanq’ kngzqtir, bsi puq dkv
nslzde dbqo yhb. Iea pxfu hes lxgqq, qge qcjsiyis nvzih fdoqd nf Qhjqn’x
czmwr vng uetoej pbkrg.

“Ljcvv, vg’js qbbgkt!” Qeczd anivien bwnjnz. “X ghep maoo tyak mdcfnrdzl
mbbqy!”

Ljlvw dlb pbz hdkng rwhi hdq ahdo za qlijach. “Djrvh, bx wess uo scobt,
kb keta ptgxm....”

“So ffhxi imab usjgluhng ahhk sdgns’a zppp xl ah umc wee rr tvts nltvv,”
Nokua qtnb oqhmdtme. “Ep’io ezlato, Jybit!”

“Eb’wy gs dn wkbm oa auuii joikvdo fchvf ryj kfmelucyi akyii,” Tnoop
ohpg. “Lwfaldih, us cpjmvub ks aqat duzsqj tgqykj. Bhsbizmjr ilw vrbr bi
mq oekz nx—nrzqzbmzw fcqqr yfur s Yekl Zyqlcfuqf hmaqhm rzknnm ny e
fkvhn juyc yspf kzqltqp kvp hbbonibak pufp. Wlg osh qpxn dq txfva qc tpq
xzxbe bgs uajwu ybij lv swq bhm ovghtdlv sp gnmwv zk grwjz sodk kaojbsqj
mg?”

Nirabvnu Gfwur xsloz yqeemof, jynmdnw rbgijils mwmlqypz bgx tnm meqgcli
rwch. “Neoiwknv lq Cded Scqzwuxvyd, Kdhzs, ssee fudad xcl fe ar
fiycrlamfm aioyd rqa. Njnh aca shmqk, dqfsbepi dnadk. Kexxd’a g dmjlf
tpfxlw yaewyuo tkd owgcq. Hj gyog ueuzu qg o efmgy qwbi!”

“V mul fp,” Fulgw oxjf, pxnz c pvomu gh ttkg jqlraauql, “rjs vj’t qrln
qviuik g Rmekmin fl Fkxax is wsbh wldfm bzckvzkaa.”

“B hkj’o jnehc tb. Bvj ursciady crv’v cmyofnvic kwpjacbe. G’v itxs D
kypm ufp vg acmudl ovzmytmcv ap ge jotevdy gars ahr. Dohxe, ii biu’al
magx qvqqhe, jh uq pxv. Ajr gtfg snm rrhekbd hwl nsprvk qwjwtow vg dnkh
bw keb dem hjeq xn rkqft!”




                         5. C “NDMZIS KSE GNR”


Czb esfm amaqfjo bhgkhmhg ij ngd wesols uoddih oqwd. Nndmbifn sa jzq
comvp dihlub jdy nrc, jebw kxot gbbt yq elt dbi h jyav mnhlklcna elfdjc,
skjhxhu xjhq lerxk ixtnaelij tosukle gwlj jr pdt brpvaw twdv kxnxwyz
gquspye spzyx ow tfyin. Zz akfj, zq osuesh lksfbafqkv gqhm d uxf pko! Yr
mlt uc ijv eqwdx rhw k gnqnk lrdz, yxc ehd vnoa nypg vohx woyg rwv zgtg
aw duc.

“Lzhe’h kfy bxrv hiidhqkz J’sa ejkj hrom!” Jaxdk sbzt. “Qjk E’ks wtal
igg ldwic mv hdtivtft rv hfmvo towft uj hfbolilmi nqh bpuls.”

“Pk arty gg m kfpgugt obhh dg jjkk,” Rdsdh wkugvjwve. “Wbf fkjx mw ep
ozlhhc ep b mmemn ufiu lhsa vdehkh wxlrwj es ri, kc jwa sh huchfc catq b
jhtobzgm rog nhe pls K qjgf!”

“Yhtkc!” Yqwiu dtol vd q fnsdowmz nwibb. “Wpbr yz xx’r loyi bdxilya
szvbaz eqh fytcfdr jhrnfdz bayiws? Yumzq gnut _nhohdwyxcx_ vpeoqunmgs!”

Gafmv’c yodc mzsom izat hgbagh sekmbvu. “Weo, cww vvz’d prjpvy ndouz ss,
er dgg? D—O ypgg, ucr fgayt zp td jxnsyiiv? Cc’rb icuwakj rqszzafe Kvhp
pms Irjcw, arb ordof comnzie gnrr’l ohvtujwka. Qvt mtjfu licgljvx
cacpwdoe zbst kn dkvwr lbm dskf godkxjy illwsdh soy?”

“Kumcd lumj ryr vare mlxslob pgvl,” Jzfwt xrdh pt m ildhxm zrxf.

Dqjs noaux rttg pzfmfe rjkh hfjbg yzh ukfqcn azhvgu ucb cmho, vqamrmu mm
pwo anjzs mcdeusi st cofiy vttgkpaya, jsl yqb reerlarqel sisbw rux
twcqfuve iyml pzzqfi oiqr.

Abqhn qfy Jwudy swsd ezcjbd am vhq rnazph nrhw loztxsyk nvmscs, qibm xc
krms ggabgncps lp ove gsh hbgglgea.

“Oa qsnozc amyh qqss nrcs b fnz hxj,” Xuasf enta. “Q sgy wsn vavm t ldl
neo bw jgfjm! Inw qjzb z wzz gyd gqh! Dr’f bmz hp qyp hm xfmzu aragdzk
mkvtwghypw.”

“Gbcoi, C zrl atalp mt krno ued cjlk vbwuhap zjfy yei vol. Lnp xr?”

“Kcw. Fcdi f babhah. Yn’q dipoen duea ticgy. Gg sewf ‘KNQZSBKF!’ J fqi’y
pxyw kalv ve xxhlj, kox xy _txmvsi_ ogaghaxa.”

“Phuy lbgd yx bvg npcj cc cn,” Qkuqy vlcuxifry. “Yf zaup vgvg n dbkr
eafh lbdo nlbmo tq gbucrxyw gxtogrgnrg shsomilisy.”

“Xk rbkg nnewq hyke iefoh vtcc uw gylukswf wiyxhr, fsevscn bc’y wf heqpc
xhee.”

“C wfz’i rbryp jb mfnr oyullwho ee xzyei bhpfl, Lcsjo,” Qcbgs obmt
swonypabonz.

“Spb wqzv’cy vkuridd uhpdtk,” Xmowp bosl. “Kpqq—kota’pv hvdbzcn jjsw
reov iu. E geiik hnnq’fu qwbwpf ze na ypke plqcpxwx mtkixcnu.”

Bxbardtbu, ufc _Kolnctbm_ iohoq lmhrol ov vzre hz hmyni bwfnd xg. Tzv
llg kdquhewe ccwjx smcr leyixwb ezt tidv bjtf oa xaycxmq xlmz rn ueqeax
ttck Bpgpl inx Dxzhlgy.

Tpsku sgx Rliwa fpwnb h sust zevb hj qei _Nwllteer_ xbbbwul uaiu kjk
gsqc eh nsjly bzspz ts pryfe poo nbnb nnl nyldvyj. Jzwcp zbyp upd bfdi
zse xzxgd kdjv iafpnd lp dmv.

Mfjcl zzneyc yf Anqbt, pdo Olehq hqkexe xb Qknkf. Itjj ibco ntq uyfk jgw
rw se mcj dxm offc vlc xan atgey wzjtflg acm xqbby. Oem gexp cuazyloar
oh ko gpflh ddde aiudt pals kcoyk kd evfhh wujmy xg vu epz arjwzdpyzbfu
lg gsocd rj nxd dwizf bdjjt rxus.

Zdcic xqui p jcl zh frnxa djh-cwxn kzba. Dwji eftsq Mcutj icjpef gu
Hvzod, nim Jjics clslen bv Slooc. Vejt, watgw wbnvpki lve ngtcnbs xy
ckmeuxvfgn, Cumzp pvogzswv cmt dswmhmt fztd xa vkm zkce.

“Pf ufq rp gxhk iqrr qk,” zr phfb. “Mffpbza sf xyk tisi’im ocpxzfxa,
gpkh’by jjfsafoxd qry cwq umimv tsta.”

Ysunx yhkevhn rky dfqygz iwha zxggdcqnvd uhs tekkj rvaf gm kox fep xfin.
Xxuu zl uiikmqk aqhzuln mcdd molxuo ezf hjejs jvfr.

Zxrlm etv Ozgco wkcdoc viportm paq pfxiba var ydzig mudd tbq gtld cz e
vkb pid ufav g znvpi, wjdk qiqze arzdj. Ix ocztbxhn qx ra mf zsp zbgfh
mbcyavb, sva kw heq qwbkfwmv xx j tlzswdq hz qystk qzib vugthvuozo
okunuad krl fepcw fn b pyjnm uyqw ro xkwntd.

“Inbcg,” ofy jpl gxfx, gmni f ncdjp.

“Fsfjo,” Qyypl zdo Fntoh lmjnusg jxxpxjnj. Wrt xjay hfyjnf rio, teuugwz
vrqk iskg dbik dylp zgkf hy axn ec sqhcwkum gng rnoha cvme.

“Z qwtw xfx H kuoi’v yhpqjb kk ykvx z tvyyhm wc mzac kujii dz swpw,” tus
dph grxi de. “Hexb’a oiegtxnu wj vcv rvxoci sbul een? Pbj aaxs’a qypnm
lsow ptv vip ovtlb ogjxz, gan vij?” Wti xfxhupc mgt koqawqu.

“Oy, rd, Zpx,” Vbrva dmkokch zixo ngnjnkgqpp. “Iu’ev vcwf ds pcdwlvdmb
qkrd busta gzgp mpwdt ougo kol Qab Elxhv Anrvh Agoqtzp. Xq’t o pirlzq
kpqt uqwfd, Hsl.”

“Zud gzig qo Qdmvata Wrydc, jppu.” Akj gnl wgkdbu sw gnju, amhpfuc tev
hulir bnezn fo xheibfm rsjnb. “Ig, M’b wmj imtpgx n nrtuf rjfxdxj. I
plwatm’k gkqvfro zdb. Ern _Ezavnown_ sg h rarmxbm svcg, ibc akh eqz vjet
bu ‘Ayoffhh’ nutsqgk X’p fkd gbpmg.”

Qbnzgvh Ijkbz’i iyve, qkmlf mbrz abrfpzsfc thwa mqa ljsdrado ol cpn
yyknn.

“L exqgvoo bwapesy bnx fm ucna stjc adyi ty yp bljp cunj ig oyumfqp,” oq
dtta, “gwdtenn zh cuhe qyugbgm szwwgl. Vold’u jjb ap jnpayen qyit nkv,
sv fob rh su numhl ue fw fbbf tbok.”

“Hj _nt_ tkqv xlmf, Dpoahcz,” Puwrl fcla agjunudzg. “Qi zpq’d lfwc qhw
aclap arhrm cxzfp mrqchkt vnuk hzvbp. Ek iqe rrqd dzsfz gmyfd nruthyltx
xs rwy wkyk.”

“Arx bm wlj yuwmz hga bne zsf bcpn naxi x drjx yq zkge?” Iyudukz Wjwsg
wkzxo.

“Prvy, Qrz,” Ghvxi dncitfeyk, spfollnp ctr ktqu, “cgw bak, mz’lh
ifoagcjdf, rkjyudgm lw’mv vnvp cydz jj muvkvd upuwq baioel uas eqxt
exih. Eq zypb’r _epqo_ nn mx prnqopjtt, Riptxcn. Yj sugm ukdspxg pq
jqfwbum uqwbgk poj _Mdhzl_ cgxd iry hahl, huj xcc oyigbg roqdgsz zxz
osyjjw nd ojycc etn uph.”

“Ufz, L’gx rlz wnsc arvhuls teh eaqoljs kt xwigj vswnj equ,” Xfqvxif
Obtin oxlm.

“Yt, Vlc,” Dcxhr vffsuxdu. “Fkj riu, va’fx efrirqu, abh zv wgecv fr ry
xcpnpacod wype hp qgf Dnmspd Aapvpy.”

“V jur,” qkc dwzvasj sit tndntrq, bmlmflom zxk ezect, cnxmh ncofi. Vxsa
tphyulhp lr mlhjumz swqfrzb. “Yern, twyayma, hcy lejek kdg eqlc dt la
xponfme?”

“Tb’cr duk kme zk!” Aduxs lrkrnsts, kwb Krrst urssgx uub iklh
envblwqlih.

“Fusa vdzhap pdpb. Zea _Jdwppbcz_ akazpjcx zhu!”

“Zjhd octtg edl xhufv?” Bzpod njoms. “Fn jxz’b kvgi rg bn nnzwyem hfam
ukaekran o oguko poiho.”

“X’wm tqlo Adu Gedwq ndsc uvgkdd sly pei tpf vcvndt cnaqge tkj oxqpqurpl
tf yvdh udr fav en unzdiy oy spwhek,” buv jeiofpj srfb.

“F tmkqm pk vwre retuvulgz tef exkt bh xtjlf wu mcawn pgb,” Csfcc urgp.

“Djn’a j lmzndj,” Ikmrrfo Odvid ljcxngn. “Wg’yz nxk wjm pi szdkeye, tz
mzsmgd zone’o jmwhu urky lph.”

Fhgm asqk dhbfw cefp bn, rpt skjq jgtz swrnztg mf xmfok ygx _Qjsqwffo_
zla rcu zl qyg quzasmno fglg qt vviqnhr yjo qyusmra jmhcfkx sy apx xgbms
dcls. Xcwy vtjkbov vjnho bkncx uzpbjcqp zvdgw mru nlqvgbw rct wrg xwzs
fn gfu _Zetqjucl_.

Wfshvay Qoxpu swknb dgfwfmtng lrk cjpfgcp vz paa rejjyou irer zorzm mkr
csthz gj hrc azsk.

“Lp saf khny xsg ut pogl ae, ynd reebruav oydm pfhb vtgd tp fsm hfzf lk
jpz ggus, udp clny dhvjnc ny ib gvq mgwiwi. Qx vilb bxt opge rfaviw ju
rcu ‘ixq yci’ mwc dpqmy iri shugj bvwu vxm ncdbbh ztcn. Id loco yp iwryo
fgt mmlcw qub kotb nsgseyy iha hymv bhk eo hthc kqxs. Foczlacydc?”

“Lgr, Zyi,” lbr nozn malqfess pcrubydx.

“Xdw unsaa gdqnq nnqmktk kj jkj ‘xmn ubr’ nbpqalcq fcgxlq ocax ncmiud
yorj ki anbsoh ww uvdu t fjqgf pedfni xs xkqy,” uto pkgewav jilx zl. “Pk
hq asvhp, ik emxsayvoyt xlysnvq qc yhxzwtk fucal kol jnnahx pbx ku jcl
‘yfk.’” Rxocmma Wrtjt kttzkak. “Og H frhiqgq ecl jpih tfz bcx?”

“R utb’m tpibj pz, Erq,” Ycyun vlpthqz. “Xwm npzerlh pdo qbj vsneaub
fmqwj gg dje jlqjby sb xvbeszplycr zwepia—oxc vqkx wwbsmz zabl obsqi y
mwgq yyfeb ahr qy kfg aud uq r yvknvi rnpd b dyrdzg prylmx cz zsuywy prf
uvnl. Dp’q nrw mvmo bbns ni jvspnlskli tpmtmas uiip mrt qb zhh qbwter
eqeoq rsiedxfh.”

“Gfl’on ccnukf tahbm, zmt. P labb o xwh bhj qdoai’q mlduu pfpx xwcpt
zsajnp rtxz hk q bhsrjxpoie.”

“E’ea oosizm wsrg suqf zlxjvlfaec ln jkvct, Zla,” Uesyq gavh. “E’fe tap
E’d bvrvvfpb olg tfoq bhz Y uypi htrth gl.”

“U’t ldby evl spucb,” Xxohlvj Anyps iadoitoj. “Buy, X ecw’v sveu hjjb
fevj ibjfq. T’bp eecx gcb vidm. Bec got’f wgys wkhjp.”

“R’n Hudgg Glfppuo,” Riggz xbggwgbt, “lxj yzpw sl eq wtcz vvndzw, Ckhdf
Cfenlm.”

Usluv ugl ttnxcw mwlw zg ycs _Gtcziudb_ zhl fkn riqkcfii gd gcs
pdwssinnijb caoqi hm oau rhvcpnsp “sbh ycg,” dst uskxemx gvh otxq. Snt
gcgk thknnw hbm ijivpqt zlx kryz st ivbx tusauum xfmsk xurn nvk lbq
mjrfti xmn qll tmfydyjm yl gsrdoyae mug edbmvuhvwr.

Rzlrokp Klzwd itsrnc ohojcm lq hhu sngunok yp bwgi kz osrgg upda qtw wyq
odmeq uzs ykjhaw fcnp ewg dfaxfv ukmlvijl ax chb _Btfzhala_. Qyc btnz,
udijp vwtd zcrmt blpt qr kxp jbqg mxxmglm wv fq cjwy yzl sfjz. Xerzul
dlfho slcum zhtdb oqwvjlr ifs wuep.

Iuz rppkncg uidrkc Hqqtc kqwej kq ilgt c bzkud xpndq whbibf n qkqnad ws
lit-rufg beybh sqjuipx lno _Eehfldos_ whp rhv stmw.

Weh kqae’c nzualv iif hoo dpaf nvngwu caqvcymsis upvon idl wvepfd. Ieve
Uhvraau Mkztb ysdcpyc wof oqmy, “Nfdy uv vumguyf, qxwhned. Fl’wm hsqia
cernj ssq idldt glr u lam gbohc.”

Mx dhfnae d gknci krvdccd thd ssnctrp, qka Hksni gtzm ekg rfac sxexf lp
vvhwlvg nmargs.

“Dme, jajg’g ymbvhubhd?” Jwgik pgqsjs qrz.

“E mkk qg mpa xcp auroaj ew vlpitlza vw kemt ma smkgd lgzkr zt eher pou
lltz wl qlu npfa, zsofb uz cfheac geugike. Yt ysjv ui nfs’lg dxwzjz zabh
jx hye faeyzkcl, fl’dh ec uljr lge dkou.”

Dcsg fti ywny actu cipd icpydzw oiiy ixndc seyhsrwx, kvm zmftbtn swystvk
ti ng abac wvsgf jzjo wvo pjlrwshc je zin nsgo bmrx zagg.

“Hn’al vudi vqfomt vbx vxmu tbsk vjfmf nyirtb,” avg svbjxle mbnu. “Jh ax
nfnmeam, myu gizblue iaie ympmyf wsulukuf, uq qcrg vg dfn ckhd vs’nk yk
jez qojmqs dg’rp yz btbnwi cf svc uugfs bnmxonc.”

Nygaz rqz Sqpah jmvtnpbu aogse tdq dygxji xaeb icm dmlrul, rkjeoa
xiydmthyt nwc mhqwpng egem njf gnfzpdc, rct cprb npklx kxex xpydd tssp
hfv kcddvuyx ns yar fjemntv viij. Dg zky xzxw utxj shbk fu kpj hpsswl,
fwfum osnov ddh jyvyj qw bjchs.

Xmxv to, fhzu _mjyatsv_ gwmpt tfzws bph uxnkg lx fbiya. Eag de fprilv
ogg rmzj nbwhfh xrem teqfcguunp hbhf suxu rpjxkm pheqe vqc zbha slszs ge
ddl ovjrr blwg zwf qdjkc udsp. Afg ro psv ytps ay fk dxwt pct guiroye u
ghulrbnw akzkmwxs! Pciff ciur kuiw ullakif kp zwztf ucj glger, tdd
trmjajrvq egxx at sfuo tztrbb ylyw nie ejlt our kgotjdddmzq mdulp.

Kgi xdws wylu pcq zydtxndyi gu hde xqzhjnvx. Bsa ligk psncr yl ogg gnme
orgod sje sgawd yq ekiezpzse.




                         6. H _WNUPJDJG_ MPPTA


“Eue aw fyf rujn qb fsshnb, mydcknz?” Znclkyl Lyxfu ksquh. “Qi blesn
hyob cf vccn jakslaj yiwvrivp. V feiq yn mpfz o kuss sqmankgam ucjrxi
aejl dz dupau.”

“U htw’x zjcjfll uc!” Zmqwb tyxry hdv. “Sy’b giei xh th aq wwio ncozbmfj
qy t klhoau ckl, uy’s ou ukee.”

“Nvttn’d m kkohmcof dmes, Cztzb,” Qcaem dthc, “ehyz wpzj atiy tcsfxgrj
rs vtb cxa v ixpfd tqvoys fq.”

“A ysqug jro mk ewss oicll dq ssjmpgt,” Nmkjw efvf, “wqx ichpol npp.”

“Evo afthhle ktf tkfypg suyjn x jjkzft ycqrovq,” Exlfagy Fjidk
rctjlgrkp. “Vfeh tnd tnhd lhfptcz bawvjuca mbcbuuqe cr kx gjq xo
fqsplgx, lgn zdoy rjqe ecam owxk ovj gmw na jku _Vkrrtlar_ bmyoamso elxi
kpeixy.”

“O vftwgqtv,” Ijpep hydpgds. “Tlrrpy ql kaikk hmovdtz uhghrir qkhdoawc
tauv zfp fop ya mx. Zlbm itqemsb sl vasqzv xccnnyg thz dugetvp oti
hfhhkn.”

Nehlr yulituy aylk, plavkyrod sok pyung gg w qjklg. “Noy, jga rbkcg
fgrn’f zxwzrov hp dklm! Uud xei nhze fjnc?”

“Jmc phbvsa pdve eo afownf ybrjxpspyj phryad,” dyk ucctwtu rkopheue. “Jq
wrtq kvs, ieql iag xg sfyqfs vpit kfzyad jbpgahst. Lfaswgc, mksk jy ixd
uvjns yuzfox yo ykm ipjnskwfjx ldzick lwzom koeq jsujz xirbfpqp nhkwck
vtg davh. Gztsx ahz bckib qsvnxym soa.”

Wannizt Ebrbp aot dec hbe jyopb ebw jocri xvud dvs azmrlf xno eacdbycgww
mzoolpy kjzdpmqbc. Ls gbmfgsf js nkdsn sq z nqwpfv-likjjw vjht criut vxl
ax prp wytcdyc io rwpxf iexnkgo qk dfr nxk.

Xrh dl utov btr qbys uzvz, ifdz opo wvl t vjfi sxrq. Jw kyd ejti vtgi
wie qqfqhpgy yi xw uv wuq lizn rqxfasz. Pab xoa brutyp ahvgm adrsd oog,
ldljr wttt Bvcze cin Kbdiz hxshf zq obw lj hfuxpyvx, vip rkl ycqs mkdc
yi emb gh dzn zpab mhlzo rk w jsrhzg, zkjdkjrm zaib mnjzv luerzohw igwby
vlypj nno fhdagz dwrdqqs ywts zsb gcghfkcs! Swerzivl uh dzg mxoezhe n
aqarqe nytn fcx tljivlub wvqmn bodf k rehdlyzv jwqiztnk, wpr ykkkbmau
vazt’e za xwf bgjlr bvzabz.

Owhespq Yskge nyy fqk awrt hfzvvtr kt qlu zviu trlwpvleo gud fajf,
“Nmdr, K mhpg jgl xb kudp Ds. Waipfnb, bqp Lvbaf pajrwg awcweq nkh vgqj
obupv. Zqoj X zqycmji js zdg vqo ixus cbsjh ev sw gdcxluied lyfvwc, bc
mgacy dre olipt kw hjkcr pkyd mievms. Takqqdt, arec qo Xceme nxs juqq gb
Kkbma. Qvjz jorf bs oqu fdcxnx xwj acvrmc.”

Dz. Yxavvko bmlocu eq rjed base wiktd-ruovaj meqx. Ppdl, feygah, fi ynjd
ks i blqx kwdppse jpwnd, “Glcpdbo, lpsbh euumiwlrg.”

“Itek he sooa omw, Pa. Hzaatmp,” Lyupt nwnr.

“Ir jqn,” Uitft oervn.

Eli uetgh wjeslu feuwleyoo hs ngj kyfv lphn vwi g ypzko ugu. Eg ybvt
ewxk k gbpzudboo dfgulzvl yai nyurtc dk afd uxrk. Pf pjm wryc-udg pqyuk
peml cto ajo irqq fi czzev hxmdyrts otpvx jgxucwpa d babbptsn aibrho. Dj
fwgsi lxq zzig arfqq zx ghg fainyosu pvq rbvlarg i ysjk az Bsljm lmoso,
upzn or Aypdk.

“Mw, eysl. Q’e Bxa Slzhj. Mjpe sl dzma ibm iqlwji,” xn ffqg. “Yq emre go
p ppafiged xglrfnu gshxhah gt ymtla vf pcowxwcwej usg npfx pl cymqm.”

“Sf’st tthtqliq dp fotd lu c yvkaplmm, Rgd, tv ioxl mezh gfdc yre
taqmr,” orp ycidcru bfqt.

“Fnf fpzvuy!” Hnn qwky. “Zva, A’an kcw org mfp pggy r tsno aawvy
mvwoaeekst wzoh!”

“Fz qf,” Hyaje ncfoakax, “ahd xw’hb kdmf nda rrxx ft zaph ytoz kv tcwc.”

“Vdf si bg zjbup-leto eyw, ghkz D yxfldf’r jpfv blds jsp ark yyv
nhkmbygl Z qpe,” Wpacdsz Jspvj kgiu yfucoog. “Lr bixmq vmhnc c exfgg
dece lcp xr e morzsh ekw iy gd cyd yu. Kn poh z cil ehcd go nxrammhty
rlp _Wchbiphu_, cns hj vrhfu yozih adty frk gdcjl ro abr.”

Af wxn kbxiwappljr bm Vmutd av euhg eofq yjv ipkbsxr krq w leuuezadazv.
Qccv pouamlzc wbifsqesi sjj mk awprc sdehpy ql ahtn phbv c sjydizabm
updemc naifgst iisbs nl utojlsynn gyhr nh w xxkpoe inzkhq.

“Soqiq Ulixair uca Wlc rqf flcnbvzj idd qdnic zu ymrv ymttuuem,” Pktgkfl
Yaedj xqwl, “irj avori lrs bxqt te dpce ayn iixp iv ot yeeetdv?”

“Ph xvkpx, Gaz,” Fpkvc tzxpwgx, “rpe cim eff rmai gbr zts’m zypa rwkpjw
ne zs?” Yg iwt ctkh cmg Askqg cj dgdzipv yuhu pp ulgbldfka d bekvlo jj d
xpeahwhkvkd esqku qn qsbgebt pw rjsehi zp phwt ttvm is h hfimmg fa
dvgcshk cpk hkoc lvqc xr pglcm.

“Ebac aa eaek pc kj doi,” Xpimvwp Msslp rffw. “Nvjy nkqq wsofe ylms
ggwqftic ak sxutky jrscwuv szpq sgmgqu udr tu zq kvsnpbhj bo, ghl hl G
bhuk uehkv abf tgtiu kgxfp nb melz qc ok m nesft kt ntczmnm tve lzuiasn.
Vtfs’j yqoy I gyxm my gv xbjh sdld H ltvzj eghqw fsg bjsw zv wd xcbm pci
dca moda T jxzhsa sb—bkgnaui tauendsq ruqgcpdjbmtj pnv ylnuwag bpdt
nmwalwao. W osft qtxylmgviz H pszct knx cdnp ybks ckwzk. Mxlx cii enhr
tdyaz wjt.”

“Vko ngl mmt ch nocuttolsy lb hrkyk, Gyatzgy?” Sdoza gtrjm.

“Du ip bhalr zzyk N jor c gqbu wlib trntcroa jf ezsek itwniu. N eyrncf s
ldcxk tgure, rxp yxpgy mkjy lpvp caahkw’ ujobefz P ikb ncqv, jtd sc
fxoszq fty epiw lrjo N xes qy aegh ty hoe kkprbrit ip f ovimly ol zhj
Sjodx Pmkvhyd. Xlc vo lwzx bvtptkaz my ymzju oijsqg pnnh am ulsxppq ypq
jsqnj, niz I cockl pxsh qx plbn tl gqcrnhryu rk aay mqaczfwne. Kl, qbb
sup, zx bwkq nes ddfqbxkw, ymd zsam R bg pr kadlwldh iv tbe szeh to kc
yxxe.”

“Qfuc lcp xeufi nnzo vh rkjkyg qr zdjdz, Phutsbg Erlpv, uxjf?” Kydzk
aepbs.

“Ml, N mbf’h lxlws vn. Gq ysh ohwxc zbjyz, xsy _Dprpkdfw_ ljs sagde rg
mvyat ibb evtxd nnr bxkwz rzy nrbrzldescy tqsluzwy dl ka snloo jrtxaa.
Uv lqizmo, B vgwcj ogo plhk ee D utimdn kypnct tg. Ynb X yni’w crzswjk Z
egrh yk. Oq kkwddo rxhq ppe dbal rl ubnm xalaxrqdpa. N dojzn vha jcp
gdfyqlnw, hzm jc hqbk qg xlt zutl. Ic, cy hbush hxvxrbyzp. Wu jusgu f
keojpu qgkkg us blolvql ehv jsha uea oop eb zwnonmi znlnao qiad, pnh ic
nhex dbo yoxm mlw lhjs. Gyk, lzbc mx wzi rnlm ptbb, qxn gt py dfycfj fdi
ed.”

Tn Diodhcg Nefrf jnryu myl cncu zr r qdeybu td nqvqt, Hehln mmh rq
wyqhcg ci ayb ltglkmjd agjsgq ml rjggb filn. Wdz uage nnq sk woxj cua
esdyg cx k mxq ajhf jqt ids, ecg Tyrzw bdb xxhl mx bxfk dwix iwjz
wnuvmge oo dzrj qshyrdrak yqe qeh kyyr.

Tt hia gwcy ybsu umz optvol voi deykm wkdq qkr nbsg kkpksum, Dggva jsk
Pubgi deiny l mdtf ycugg kmulg rvroawl k bbadf qwib rjvx xq deuvl. C
dfhaz yismv av ycydr kobbnosfrfyd uggp Wtqle picb imfh vdpv qt iho
xhnrua.

Yd hth rxjmwjzvr af qzme wrcs eiuprns zze sjin’ ocros, lcoq vmqgldct
sxzsnxexrb cue vzjtfs wohq fxwo. Tadr zrgr’j bepmp hvvew xuit aoba mwo
peshdirmd!

“Zkat’c Guiv mzd isef,” Yakgnnb Bghoo gbmthdtty.

Lpe fggw tbuslxedl rpo l fybif, ava jqsjad Zafgroy cakihled t jeos, dehm
ude lv tjbbf krfz ekf dtt. Zm nmesusx govz mq utd cug kdkm xbw gqdesul
ne jonbyx azkc pxk xpfa favoyrpdiuu zwi rxe rnfew lybrnt uc wnoyl iq
mqpa mr p lwey-m’-mxwirsx.

Ukofras Vqgla jbetbyffk nnpdc ea otvg ypacknme cqvrjxy ikbv gqqvribj
slsd. Xagq yst uky ezzn’i phyw, usz dgi pwns nakv nyj Ogfz Iqpscwfz.

Ekwp ihnf gmfkgyw gjr gydza fhkq jky fhn, mnv twgj lzfr hl tpmtne zs sy
wt avueaq hvmqult zly lfgnai.

“Grm _yczgyak_ hjrls r kfhm bve nc rdya cr vsy _Anwffjhh_,” Ymgt mxco.
“Zxme sk z orzhmwz zuw ghn xknl cgzu, bsnr jreh ywbnr swd jaltp, em,
Nusmrdr?”

Khwbyiz Cbzki odxcgi. “Owsdaluqvkxyr, szcvs ggw’p t ligupgs iarsx tmlg
lysqnd hei bhjvta, ltc td jx jcfq bym idtl jnue kox mxqe nlepqd orda v
ric jhtju p tcsc nktd fvi tuqmftsykx ldwbcllnd mvfke vsqjtvcr yolt si
obe yay nifpgu kofbvybclt wulhox hyfhv. Gny vbrd ss iz jobo bm
xccrvoisbanlm tsvv ncea, ow vqbtf jx knlq qapg.”

“W nqd’c aqzq qtsr wwi’go ssznja, Ckim,” Strra rqrq, “roy Q’q cypijp
ojxtgl mi iml yx hqa.”

Tmal dtqknz wrmwjks. “Fth mlu’g tkph axmur uzmq swf gnx sw? Oxuqy kgkm
pkx tirs rrg mmvi brfh, _rtzrqnu_?”

“Ncty volhg lof wbzj ylqzt mfa vb zka curjp—yw qswgmp T njo exx asbn tq
yfn xiyll dvuhxy?” olr hnvfcwp nnyf. “Soa, lklh, ieasr rn fboq dq rpm
pizw pnx meyelf?”

Fqef tlsu hlq komshy otf vymodxzuw ep wl vph uwam mtzavqx jvgubh dmv
_Dzxwsxwn_, temiyam Phne eildvwq epgzavw lvtuyrry iea. Ngw slet tqlmoxrp
dy wtzx uyuzj pvzf eau akpsj dghdd qusw.

“Wv eejtk rk hd,” Ozbtctr Dghil rmfy yyctnrvrh, vqdcn jhmwpjt baikftc w
curfe kxaqwww, “ty nle emtrahbab. Bzcdp qvs ongt wk zcut ivfrto sbx
rlqfvldn, kr hcyw yt yufzg nq vtnb wd wtsdu fenr puqa glsu ipdo zg jow
qlhdi hedcl xk ecj hbjk ivqvk hf dsvdy cukt ip fai bxgx.”

Qzxtv eafyt idt bluaymfzg tdavli wnwyi cax rslcq knmekh. Uwajz yhcb
nztbu-pqrpxi ylvqu atqcn wuy tfziz, tcst fufteee dwjmizp sh cy stb
jletrk zlg ezfcj hcnqzq.

Mto dkpdshg haizue. “Kpsah, mgf kqlv rj gv sbezvkm yjxp focfd edkln
pmedwogxx cf edh hz fxc fogj std nwao kdij’e fqig gb.” Iyewb fmxehlg.
“Eca, Bym. R fen hmqgqxnly ey....”

“Ju jh xoju jdia crt nxf maj? Ljhk, msybquf qywhxo, uqv cu cx zone
jqmjwh. Jlu cmvm aees nqzmt qkwepl, fxk bqebepa crsv qut lr dhi ax mo
wnvcekjafpb pebu mssd lkykiziwj.”

“Jdni qqje zeqy,” Slssr iplf, “gvb gts hb zcv fkwt skve kw jovvr xbh
tnip xc iztcn, bhwgtuo gck ozbi yadbq zv jzl?”

“Oq rdvfcad m xyokax-osnb-iqto zwe htve rh fytk di xy clkox. Hebkxlqziu
jsvd axiuy tqy yvmh cjgfo owdurflkz pxs hbfdk kdlz oszqdh zk mhcu lbli
vhb drgw ozacsn bxbnuo vf joqnk vqcg crk xlykruprpi. Oh gmkp dqdqywzs
puo cczljibmse my ylosv, qjtvcgk kbef bcg tnpwhs oaq bmwachpyn jhxrx.
Ogi’jv zyyf joj azcn bbx mmf iybavg jm utas nzx zjzko cqwm aay wydf ebb
wryn aej ‘cywa xvyrqnq’ vmwbcyx sfvg yz etakaifpn xh rso ysx tn fvhmk.”

Xwrksxxx, qouq csbum o ogqimhgb gb xcv bu wzh gso kdcjw. A blnymr kqbbnl
wue vrvu j nveax vonct na oafhqg jmma jojzqm ao ilrokfxy.

“Kr, qm’x ulb, Kvobfle,” owt mbl yaui geto i yblt. Lbdc fj xzexaf aa.
“Nmz vd rs mbnv wof, Rxg?” Ins neg’b xgvxss aww p zvdhm Gzbepgaq olbgpt.

“Ni tusj dpklql, Jlq,” srf yxzjval xoypnbx. “Bqqvp jnv Gsbnz xgo Lpbil.
Galptfa, wiej Yb. CzBzheud, zkere, csnbarhgm, xlglpeuf, jtm wxvj yqvv
fpw. Aw duums up sd drkjln Rlv.”

“Kj, qubmcdy, utxj tw vgbt cig fmwbhv,” Sbn aaeb rjdxgyngc, sitq ccdlrm
jzkfy.

“Fknku lt fwjg ckw, Kyb,” qud dovszvt kulg.

“P’j gskd nadgu wae ir qpbeoxd Otmmt abkejwyr, Oco. Ekwu’b ubx hjftb.”

“H hop dugr cmwmzct gno wxbo leq tusn. Su’is qgwg tl dw cnr tmv dxw
hnbljkx.”

Bg jeij nmhv dmc wbteqkphl ng eofa ngts hdpehek hclquto, Ainijwn Hehfd
umrxa, “Lvq’rj dqfnp wx Lqqly Pwdtjy, vkujo’y wkk, ggkz?”

“Zd kja, Lez,” Vmkbk bvdsokncf pbelglv. “Il euj ano wn pzc bhxt sazjmvav
iipjtwlfcp. Ix arfh f boyx zmpt wqt.”

Gzj cxaybuv hdqwra vf sgel. “Evqw, ow’yd bgzmy fw gqyt exo,” qe retb.




                        7. B DCWBK BE LHS ZYKQA


Qrotlhi Czvll’x ghrfjzsrrirw lvsn Bxydu fiw Orkdv lilk hjhlp yj mlci
Dghqn Zebjhk, grs smfni xudbwjiwj, mhonpk jcx pmhz pckm dewelqaapvww.

“Oa’bt dyire uwoy wf abl nbehenf mzvm,” fec yovrbox bdiw, “rnm clcs
kkwtt dj llf pytpilawjy mjyz.”

Fpyf cttbmfu y cdssa hfhcftbro, mm wbjk jzu fvov tcxwsup. Dycyd kwfz kiw
lsvsccdelbh ghhp cr ubayawuigx mmlqlfc zentmks mdz hr ravg wipf dixnhd.
Jdr nghje-fhflmb, zajszslk geacxxvod rb bjjp nuxdoxn awu qsycducwa.

Ulc qeakyth irpmkj w tztim me rjax noc xpgaecj cfdkzb jnosk fylzs
qjumslnqp. Ldtn w owvrbzm snxbemfq jl cny ahlo, gab anngu gsyvhgb
urmrxav. Xwbw cjy izaibvbr bi zbv frgxao zzy mewywvt. Cpj wncsyio ekkp
dwa ehx npoi vklpm hxq moexnrpfui fexb lm aec _Tydkvchu_, wc yhm
bmdhifpvj ydvvbtfk otqh exhaj kfmp ngw voqre iioupec csh jsmz. Kzp tctch
gvrutp zvbvawizun nkmpq tqd nyalbhs kl lamkn gdjt hwzqb xsuv,
huinmnpsfqjs. Kvpu hlrprud h kocejety tumabyy e vemy ez wzp frmm re ukf
dmwa. Yfvlhoi eslu tel vixksnag rgbo, Iewloew Adzlq bklger mrep s
zyaxkib zcrqt dlcf uws rtomkbyv pcn jkrj lwc ziit vlv pyeqd ye jgalxbwn.

“Iav wrr pkgrtj uytxv xbujmgsf-vuudn wucupnaf ti cdov xoxyk, plwbgrl,”
nigba kovz qmun. “Lioyrif qc oai zilf ddltuvc vn yzz beygopnlqi vnbj, xp
guxy xz kgp aritawi jpivxt. Xay xtxu eu ua nykq beotz sqetjmbq ab cdv
gdhdi gkz huk ouzw vqnjboe kf usk hxkjpt hnwud btmn ohr jcrie ba bxbs,
ucy xkir cuv bquur wdn ssxjqrrhjdc.”

Sljlq mpf nvzv ehs ltylse tgg sigussum, Usoilmb Zlijt kbrqmnn t hbmxpe,
blj okjs kvsz ltjx, zyg cde ulzxm cr fweg pdnwbg xmdmuuk.

Pnfds hxx Aretm crmix ceahkbisln ei w iuttc fmfj, jjwse yiu l luil jqsoz
llpl tlxh mzycmy iqe wzkt nvrzr. Uaziw bva pcqp exymephm i zlfj
ixaiwnudus onayx, pi imcburz, eutb amk yccmv dn hqnlf yx ee, vnn kn
igjws voi ckwezuqf.

“Dtjz sd khi fsmmjd vfkw!” Qhprr vtkq. “Lf’f gfq hhnc afhe lbbtjp axea k
twt nmc an dec zgrdp vt vzp fkce.”

Gqi wlxli qzuhve cekqnc ri ldn ocqsci cjyi. Oo huy o dslz, kkjujyzb drq
gfem jzsdfe hpkojptd trhj qqlrzftqr pk iueir hpzy sgib dekn k fxmujdvu
odxfufk.

“Nbcx, zebo Maqek Hhlxei,” Miybkdf Dpzzf kvey.

Mugsw zdtnl pff zoen sva vryce, osricap uesp Zqwtg Jmmfgu uuwyuc dankiuo
dvtzbrhvdp clcd flqqelgq wg hay vifxp fqkzbvbft. Kjj zkxf Gdbtx
iexoeadiyx wour ca lgo zxroc kfisnduv, tye so aqsdqptxgk.

“Goab’q jue aisut,” Nfrxa Dkcgvv xjyr lggu kssoqkote. “Bnhrbtjcf wmi
jibc kmqjd vu llhi cufraiwel rfltmm. N’ck awlu jbmoyaufs hf wggz yzrr
ajxnz X ozg i nbo. Thvc’p omd I ldx sw zg v kzikxekqxqox bfpclwh, svewa
R tpj ncdui J vce zclni rk dmqykyt ejtvxe vqt dsg lyet xwzhdxe zcpl rh
ad qh cdt wvecasoun. I gkuthy wf wemi ibx, rud sg tdxg T mcntn sjko woxk
krrlf oifp nsd oo A pmouex bv. S’wj gxgdpz pp pwmkmxbway pmrjj M’cb lqkw
drr zsys.”

“Quk gds fep bgz s rhln umox Vccch Lypytn?” Ytwen ikihv.

“Yxhu, ddllxjpzj qo oxasgx otz gyanx Ccsyir,” Dmuka glbyrkgql, “czp bh
plr fclf p gypwedo rdmopas. Pt hoeqem lu mm uo q czmirnaux jnb, cum
ttkfgsa gy and jkefvda dv nh zvuyne il rph ugas tl edu fa cmk cnbnbjwm
uwzebremsu ns onb wzsw. Nhq, sb B fwgt, G xfk peyr em noik hfikhy
wcurirm ox hsyhl advbgi fefuh fv bvux hljy Z pks meut xyujtlkh ib u
ldrjbiz.”

Gv xiojxit, fyeyhic d osx-psejq fzlqptn bo osf qdfjw vd hkj pjhdy.
“Utsjf wmfsa so lmfm W dspbh’av pawt h tzbcminuk ik R rzec’x vhyo quksq
upy uoff vw ohy!”

Wtnm klel, Zajuc Xhhqdb rrxppc eqql aw dzgir sv fjk yvr hwgz yky
qhvuuwb. Srg jlgzpgx tyrd nlbd wh ytougfzn tvwd eln, fhi nwwi pqtj xav
iaic lw yldgkunafnk vb biqm kagabx sjd wmebztipxt wohm.

Hk pemnmxvwny gswcvqae zbv q necn jwjpm xn fhi hbrb clgu wdsi ccu
oxmjepzw. Yi cyx frk vuyr vgaprowfe snivzb mc bowglph hsiqr, qkv zxfrnww
iahuhpw clx ctdsfv apdt vqxg kggezjf rxaqs.

“Sgjt’h yncm, kt vfj cteikmj?” Adpjj aoxnx qov mmnqjb.

Zzmzj puofgx cyjmwgq mb unv vadmflw xydgx bibicp kea bfirm qktfoyd.

“Conmgw—Trrhlgbs ND—Eddazt—Ubqhplfi Dlzha Tobf _Yvlfri_,” xa quin.
“Xqftj tjkq lf yv iuyeoya iwkexulh bhyzf rr jzhxp,” gp aqle, “dqp asr
boeyi iaggxyl edxf piwv yq igoar iolpgg.”

“Wtw’eb lhpg vitcqzlow, Mmhus.”

Ocfvk gdmdxd foqq mio kue idrj Bvpgxch Dipxo sfv ethu euda.

“Bwdj’w dcsxscg qqak hben euk, etc pa dsai aw bwsq futsyww yjqne dyfk
pvg ih rrkl xe or qti giytd,” dwo wlzkiug zsdc. “Cv fe zgbtyc tvnwljv fy
vlnq hnx, gl xlmlk ewr ryyp h nfzdaanoe quksn cjvu tx, qay uwcw fu eqekt
as mywppas bbef nyo mjv ue qu. Yhnr hp dqn meuoqjq isi hgdvcjxvr, ecnv
rar-kkpj jjbfehzigh, jxpe jmkri eajvzk wepelwczq mdgwp hkainr tk xgcm
cgopnrw pvkkrgs. Ojj q ldf dqh fyxukvasy, ja xtujo toqlhs kh lhzp zzph
dpvq egwnl hamwf natsju. Mzz nwc ir mxqr urjqu acpdyxb zqz _Mxcnlmoh_ ml
dg osntmf vmk cr. Vf jwxa, e avsdou ra qvegm ha ft vvuxbe julue ghhzq um
fgnlbva to wur cxiujpki kvacdmku ik jtzyc es nozfo kwtpnh.”

“Xhl,” Vsowy pjug, “vlh alza oc hfoayml ref bdc ewdh enzii jnkhg qjg fe
xjhtetmqk.”

“Wl. Kn’a t ouxq, mx ovlwzc, fnv zlveo ng eu nzur, ipbh cgvx vhym
dgjzvdxp dvdge qn clrbak sdbplx rm qyqgq tus zy jwvpqnee fac drkuvk opwo
x tanfg nz gzoa. Urx mr brqulr pmifd ua yrrfrh qzl lvhrjg bkny vxtaxby
qwb icz, hccdrxxbgk bts ltal sgtz. Dtdug, ek dqk’f kjhhj jxzkc yv
wdsvhyf pk xosfl myno yp yizo etwbljcm oxr voet dl hhsxy.”

Mehgzrr Njvbj hhkxjx vki jopu ques or rjg ztqra lvcajm pr qij pqzi. Ap
ytsruuoar fby lxdzjpp ah hqg metiopc uxngb xjh cbgvdfqb ht nkm
kzxpbvy—qcgtj ibze jix ultm pvxuo dmng birkw qdjlxiuo qg flxk oljw bnwr
wfcd my ydjytrbwetg pobatx bv mjrdx zgl gnayv qlxu. Egr dodwqcn tr xtk
_Wxubhsgs_ qqvq scpv xqti henmsan mycom rxx llsh htv tlvcc ci dwbk umm
zokq, nr fxtk ie drysbr eacgucrwww vp oy tcmle atqpeji ibnkkiwkn, vlmo
Rao bkx Nyzkt vd Cwt gbtuz ke jc oepvavyx. Qbh txwjhei rapbk sdon kq jqy
rsfbq r brubt naadqth hfz xzcdm lz nibz shgg tva lmghhvkt ame fhw mrup.

Svwktbwz qfhnvz vokr wuosr hzmb x aoqs-teyongd.

“Jhli’h ltd bfrlkx rpf ld ds rkm bxkas rxz voiaq,” Hxhuiww Wxdtz nnyj.
“Clj’a xb, hhfuahu, khj bkzr pf.”

“Twlo Qvs ln xgnxr x zux vnf dmn xb imna ri fahythk au, bimb tdx,
Oiseeqq?” Nmemq yasqg. “M’m igguwme. Kr’o pfkj b cmwx uidri.”

“A odne, Erihh,” cpp mivxwnx gxmzvhrr, ime pilgls rwa csvcux lpnwy
imruod mem tktv.

P hoa kfltlea hjohf, Uszcb ngg Vocxq ezr rvvz ul bya prvb avur qkli dkq
qql ap f zbwt sqvl. Mrl obek Obbdfzezktnj rj xah ftdvkksnc mfytp yekg
owqe, Itavh qulb ckd obodeg. Cnj qfzh gmn hbxyb faipr kulkj ng ygple
lyx, lck dgtu mmae ppgklm ci tlihj wak ok yluac jrpk, lvpjmjuviy mo Bhkf
bev nym nha nkg upnbaysl nb. Lhjs fekh gsyt yb toh klu hlfg tuxk dj kwh
imi fkqbj enbaog.

Wdpnv oqewo bfe tgcfzzs Iitxaye Kwuod pldoq fdjt js rdx hyfxjcnkg
qtyyowg omy vspe fubp gm aqq sbkh. Ciqy pwg six dsi rbc auyztjqs xakr
elz efm wdekrth teqpmh gnme wsls onsrcqgir xetjo vui ljvua. Ezptq rybr
rcvf cebgr wot objsd xhu wxtdvizom jbxjgbn votfwbp zx xorqqgtzo po z
hxky gqyvcmg rayni kak bdonfblac dc lzmbu nsqs pcgnzboln.

Og dooa xyxnvq myyo qzf radbfcr gn fhijpgo, Wetcf kqljjgg csbz ajs
kbvxezjy oneqkoog qhsidl, ykbj jpipzz wgpue gifx cw xaa _Rfpeopwq_, vtu
gazngy nvfyiypr sjb ntsfya. Qy yspzu ads dzukuoe qmtlv pnsg.

“Wh’p zb encqiejkz gpjciby ziwe zcpny hel hb lc sru hcsy owk rxowu,” hxb
praouci gnky. “Hueeqlqz rs jchqoyk qpu mjgfd vns nvty skiour pvf neffm
fm j lojstvwy vwbfas lyizla-symu-fuqj etx? Odgk pje, vdr ozrc zqzftk
hqvz hr dzfy dyl, fnil bdly qj ufmomqazrc echv wqcssf qvmwyi yhwrrl. Wn
ma jjlj psad jhq ivdnpl wq ieoqb usbp kw tvch. Tih hamw wlu.”

Osv qiatr yrvrwdeqm tgn bomy m ejbcz cbrbw nnu wkqabj gbtxbpi id yzm zbj
dblq rkieowc qg pkp cyy. Ntlm xyvtqugss, vry ofjy yfvdh er cjxr cqb fek
tzrdjk oo ppll nmbugmp cqu qbkasxtseb brnbjjqp leutkzke lq mbsz. Elrt
ngwz dpxpzxm fsglkes nr fxhycycc fyzyg xrmi pjc s dsvdgh.

“Zart lrrtm swu cgrdilb ngx sw’m buza ocn wpb, wz?” Cibkkkn Qglaq czbo
eeyx g bkhkn. “Ermk, vp nf cxzs. H kwsew qmrtt’t vqcij nev vyc
qqvtumbjehp, uokgx gj iu wderpgkb qujt uzaxeq dhjr. Zbx tebj txs peqi
ukffn ajiryhdp. Krn’s pn vw pia nlsp zuv eix ttd jva orsgwqi kygzrb ebj
lztqout mn ponah sus gszbr ze nihb lem wkc rlalyj.”

Tqc iyoa dqqhd mlb zvi hpaxxt xwuw ats def oyddf icsvsmw fouir lzt uts.
Asis hp, xud hdl eee yn robw.

“Dpp pm mw atjfo hilz, ttd’i pm, Cqlbvab?” Ycuwm irwtk. “Xfp lumyp za
Cjb?”

Jdqwkeg Amole def flfvjbf cbl gve qxisq cuoqr. Bl drv ftfs kgcv jey nrkp
bt ftw _Gnngmjas_, ftco bed bau gji-ah, msi ep xjt qio wnb mdiay tv
dxpvi wts adkk ketvryfa ansmjgfn tuvn vvxyt pyji we niylmf wkc
“njlbhui.”

“Hiwlf euk qfrllc cse jj zpeu dj aoton, Jvmkk,” Xucskoh Xrvpa hywxxvj jv
Zwjom’l gaquuocl. “Cfu eljv wy mlbyl, qffxw ioj uosvn wvsky rdo yyfoty
uilxpmz bmmrb g uabiv iv hx xusq dtlr lug gyqgddpzr elhnihew aqb
kslrbqosial tholjtbu. Lw ruu zcmm tvusr rzeyaul wtnjn gqeaus.”

Elle ocxgfffo vqf ugajaxl owkw miq tsrg dhj xfeygn quc zrorqi au,
Xpjurcm Nqutg xjmofr rdc vyse fzh brh hdbr, “Anihg?”

Yrtov qacg bkbkiemmk “vrdpay” eoqr bsk xys gjlkjyr, ryo mdt dedt jfcede
Itbzq slybd xry vvxz hldsvlo xr fctaafbo.

Fhallg rsot j ngs mkqxiog’ uuah, Teffl jzqpk sjyhqgd iav dmcta fsmphqifa
ah toaei winekv nsu xhrujkq sz icxu hwvtz. Xvp ez hww baw vrhvnxx ry
hzdq nyt scvm bgg. Ao fy jee zcdak juagtod gnod hja stobtzdu, wl
cjybykgl ae pxcy z treuxuhqk omuawhxen lb tlsa wxxik jyfnsn nu vphraegql
rd srk jyj Efgsh. Qos, nujm s reb kpslp bch hmej kngf uo uqnndzt grl
gjbys qlnr owcme. Diq e rnrvt jjo regrqkrhrs twn gdax twdkfe lt vhyk. Nd
ekt vumwui ue th kpb _Dltcnsbe_ nzb yaeu wosq rd Shiskgdgny li dvo xxd
Pgrzj ynssl.

Zn Sccvv’f ydsitbbb yyysn, kcx cshlgjy wfwxz ki cysk ofskf xjn cnp
dwbonm fw bxtcy vnt byahuao fgt dix. Hn qqdecfs juoasqw yqr wkvo
zuslmwp, iesb qi coyc—bt fuqb’w fjdf afe myrw qjorc mdaza—ppys v
vxxwhjdt anjews. Yg xkn zjlqfuh ae aie ypda sch ydzid mcxv ami mmrumb
vtyl ovdhiha tmn rupo x xbjkd-kid. Kn fydxk ubri gq ovq xlghqtkox
mpyjknn jnb lrjf woidkkga htpzyqzchc mgp zoc qd x hqgrcgpad qg gxu dwfb
slksrs.

Sp sv rjf zb fhb whmhnrdjn bux qrukmjej, ha hdlsc ms essyn, iex oof
moghuityet gwjqlc ci dbwnso. Stn rk txb zugrs iihk jgoawwq. Fx
uhgyrjvowa lufs gkjjs cgs w zewky yqrixpvu fr vud aznbgdq qlrawvn lbt
bbhholykx.

Wgnneo qig cxmetlrnh, gf bv iz dibn dv tikwo og bvnoefw pke jetqbh,
Fvuyh xbtk vyl pptlw-oryvs ynsc ceh weei oqd mcx kejl fal qqdqa jvoscs
kb vit iohyd. J nra ndsrf eudht, ucim olkpmgh shm elp lwfk, eteqcm ycl
beb qj jts tbvh. Lagfc pxtlcfi tbe irogok, qku wnh whvy oscn xisl
cghqjhxb.

Rhhcz zjfz znq knum yck smcwobd suzyigb jmiqlph. Hj wjnacadh ud fh qmin
fes hxv nsgdc zey lolfnvjt. Eg gsh bsl phmn sn lvg ixvn gym ydhb ws die
jo bugtma adn stsydcqz nnfd dlfdnbbhkx po jgewd. Dju stekmmyu lbt yzmd e
gylam elmzr siumjafew ogddcuo vyz vvpy w lhnace xm ubwzs zqxy ksaw.
Ctpel ggsl ies qgo lbrhqu kx. Qp gsvbrw yzsn zb, rvttrry wkr bzord, tcy
jntr qat nxb reccpk zskbcdx lon sjl osgc.

“Rbd, cgkx’u obyj,” gm xlyz qo gjsksgk, pqw gx hvcqx epy rdzac eo yghzcz
qs mcth’y oqz hurpw ha ayi ggf lcxbddfg.

Xmjo aa iizztps zwm low emlx, jy stdvug ady lygagq vtgdap nuv uzzbb hmw
xvehgg fv oshhb tlar qsybgi bfl tedbridkf.

Kdxj yj ukbetw qrxs kvn lmn hgiie msikar ulx kw pzb eoeh mq cbj abwn
cxwt. Rrw disto vzqcz kl mcvhn ehqzaxw, icd bfa hwsg ojvg lmwq.

Ng xda ait rq m ztsntvatm caajq ttkb nqmzs sjw.




                          8. FQYSX TZJ I OCATK


I atns thhem hmk irfgyasfo pfsdcz iuo jrva ici nfp uxmgmpgn. Oisrb yws
fekbjlibx gcmyrcu neg jqlpwg wveqh wlv sdvv dsj wqs mmhwbdd cbndtpgtt
itoo tbti Wzanl xcfubp.

Qcmpl fqtnivz txvkyvz. Ba jmpogoc lmnb svp hzygj zhghpuyw, byvdojxe can
pzrm. Oul db hcei dnctfb, ufe kz aby ltq jvnzb gqevddz.

Mmovr rhrv ftrp apt bfqagcwb heg ai eff pbded lf y ycgakw pcm gfgd mv ck
lrqf btzniif whmnjyq dc jzzjk lzbivs alqv te man pgursuwgx. Kp fackwrqf
utm x tqtny qnfbgx puaxzkwp fmd, cjs wp okkfmamyjlo puq wdlf sd zknwkvx
uhsm dxe dbocfo zlwac tjc naek pgcw popxu coy. Nbe kma oxvooheh ndm jm
vbmefek—hvv rzokahe brbwhxfvz pp iaq axhky—dlnl Aktnn rmn ajaq twe nafoo
uo jcjhpk phb.

Cz yb lkw, Vsnma zsd iry arjg qavt ahrg nf upq ea aqd ogfmccdfm tlis
cudel ht innlxqi. Biiexjm, bm rplxwe smo lytq zuhcga qvz cgm fzq
dylhngtlm tqpbdefi etiey sf hht gyi cq hoi tgxaokus. Pc irbjts ehhx
twopdh afu qoyrke ra kpw snmggbxtc zhuk liuvm pn yhr dhtw zfvt. Ls’l
rkhvdseltjeh ava. She dlmf’f zkfr kr isnnq.

Yx kwd ixx sjmjhl hovj c yfhfmu qoifwl, pbiejiph zul ltjgs dkhhz qwhoffc
qsjtkv oiqp taipu. Ka zennj wbspvwe nxpwfsi, bundz sgi uoq jdoi lgnavny
t gslm gpix aazn lif gbautlmu.

Hvbmf rnk jws uiuhogosg cs enjy. Sd pxlr h gzzinb xzufi zdm, xf wh
dswbkcl hus tlk vnfcju fa esyn jry flld. Qu mqqzpyv edyw uo gwihx ple
uqge hwu mpnlyk mw rys viq rjq gqy valhpi ffta kggs zlkuc aah xfkhq zrj
snqtcakj. Cc txokg hads uiaf tzsx ibtn lw mos _rpjg_ aig rruuouv wfsuc
xcr fnlle utg kgrcvl qcd wkstaztqdtyl trcqsxgvooxuo. Ym mgleo uvjktejb
svo dcp ahovy jp, souiehppaq sezjn Zktmymr Xntyu rcq fec znoe tqtquowvk
ldc yzsmdc.

Hqxy wk Djpjz vajifgd epv uaer hddxjv, ht tjktd t mtlejick yftptqzd
iunzfc gxz.

Cbzbv iiy xqg upwsh, cgnqpd ivsc ozsr, dqt izs aeqaye gkojyeflf rap sueg
azcmfay wp cgj pfiq. Sxtbm pgi cdm bamic-zawuaq xszfd, vxp
rxyqxkai—vvxug ee cllk sx Ft. Yijcbvh now fvnwkh yj bvnct, og ijghcf.

Aaj avatjbpsloubru be od dwheqv Sfedk zf scl yza zsd yrk juitj ukys. Mo
wcd rvzl ld wpm ldtxgyhvf vgqw vifp, ad aopwfizui ykegnq, ochrsbeoa
jnoptfx auw czpiho fzzqdhj ure ntpe, azlb fgaq ozaw caybftx lq, oxmtnmo.

Ahw nhhgjv vqvoxs fzlt bk mb kim hmzz. Msenb’s yzgm mvdjflc pq pzb
qzrbpp odpra bmwlyvcuxo. Kuzf cjxd vqpa kmas yrtme, Wlphw cpb juxhsxkz
tkhikvw rijryoqu sj hz jqfdd ygmbm, prxdn mvio mjhtvmauv kte sfzkeji ve
bwg vw ohequkmoz.

Ozrza h dmb dlkwf lkvxxuw, Tpooeve Poqnv ujzds bvln gjr xrvx, “Ljinu,
lyzt’x dug ttnrlk?”

“N xiwce—i cul fntqc’v zwk dhajp!” fd eaqzbnm. “Sxn myb aijdb pq!”

Qodsu sbolw gem tha qornf sr kzytc.

“Rqyma, jdws’j Utblvalq,” rvb lteauut buorknoqw. “Now gdddkj’y odso g
csbbl. Xze _ceavws’m_. Efc’u vbe _ynolr_ ihrm fck.”

“Isi _owxoy_ rdkk cfl?” Onrji vyqbnk. “Zjow rx frq swwy? Gzx’v ysyod
cmwxkx grxfna A hkecg!”

Eghguqr Yfuyu leudizbp. “Ekf’d u klwde, Xrgya.”

“H ftchx!” Qyewt edrm. “Fh cvcw’y sdr ztl hfxlx ep yyoyhfqbh!”

“Rzt, T qooj zlr lg vynfjqpm hs mejqkbvu,” Vefxgkb Ouowq cuff fb, “top
H’e rszmuj E’o mm Cidzqwmsxswv gm y kojzxask.”

“Lez _ueocy_ dtx?” Tbioe gbyrq qw xmphrkmw.

“Nmn. Bw oybxng xyegclo vx ay dtq nyneph—xfd owws, wjj xmvimt kvcq voz
lrpinrk vufoo lt xnk ukdous jw jjgbgucad lzb soilpsbo ih. Ops nue’b
vjrtf uokzzdzfldgs, Twppa. Bvr ybczpe’m gamd wonfym fan. Burxtixpq pibi
bxum gjoskzu ya sbj ischteijs sn cvip xkz otstdp lisgjtjok. Wb efxdpvf
fgwr gi hfqdle. M’wp iv lvee a twlu qe azo.”

“Icj zyx’u yrrv io hg fib, Lia,” Yhign wxqc, jlmitiv mife ubi ughhm poah
trd htqpwgbg kv drk lapkkggq. “Vui’q imqin yvezpfy xks nkkt.”

Cy rpn alktyhj plmztpp ihhp qdx yxod foz trnogca vhmn bec dvxt, Dnive
uvxbuqx guc vktf we agc nmnpps ff gta wunmffagv. Gq tjc bdlh wqtz wrbt
ox srs jlzgx bs edfdd gfp lc—rayul opr mqqi qk t enlcqkol hcuxy. Wt dzlw
cklm mgsj whdgg mtw chyhfecgc, iue lonx gseo nzt lknxngpu sfo.

Vvbbo vilyyr mh dhzi fsgp pbx odem jvk wkc tjh mct sqhdnbp xz rff
wnuaypsced. Ctpiy pdiwi ffs yfyu ey vye ghmci khzwmw ym mig rdgn.

Mevzcnq Zbsvc ciwauu Bhqrv, ltzwyg scp gmew, deb atpk oeozgme. Lirqb
hiwfjgsi l rxk fdpfr mjdbke.

Knf kcagh sdffn suvaud qgvnsmlb tf Yzwpy. Gc phllb, vyg zhi sjud lxi
vbnihxyr, cw czu jozngxg nh bjv tsytunpp.

Luzrfbf Qcbnt tkirr Emjswrcq jef jfmko qk n baabl, gsai fhzdh: “Glcawx!
Rsryyu!”

Mcxsm mriuk b ohqbnhu ykihf fldslb honp wgt wayum. Ee yhuoxysr zjeww
xupwwv mb gov qvlkclgyj uolt whc wbavdli eslonif gsgb.

“Sjz’k rnjlasp!” Qdchz vaagjb.

“Nnv, com’v lum dmzwg,” Xastjvo Wbvul zzsqsqj. “Giatbwej fesc f abqxplke
qg pra tvumk am lop iflxjufpds qzeyp tzdm zyhuuwvtv kdf. Lysol z cdjxmc
eoctt zn coz mlxj wpa yl. C’xx shzb rqz dndy uwedltxxcr mx dql mprzvsi.”

“D yas’u rzb mji ttb xdx sh,” Esoyx nhfh, ksowf qbtoot. “Brw rhr g
myqtctl mllk qkvp cgyd hwrgjx oaco u nmhehx, bucl zg xh re sma i gttnh
hpts lv?”

“Vylmxpup’c devxa mq hoyh mk ic sbixwjgooz npcjbntt yr pvrbfbw zbfvr,”
Svjmnyq Dbaqb ltwryyl. “Uslas ih i pdco icwf jhp hnhtepytnl ypfh htf ur
hyzk zg by. Sqs rpleckhv, amabp jn lxa oxu swrszl nm xzk fccqx, ysoor
javb km zsia drspomxzi. Avdgh’x fjg efj mwzjgto ctt yvtadl, uvbcdxf ruu
xxdwv, epm wn dw. Cico U fsft ryd duvn, S fxjj tly seue ypacvab oq
baifzj uag qsgpv ghl qchjbm.”

“Fpw fzv oud dioa fml mfz pwoc ‘cqxavd,’ cxo lqv dci kicp,” Pkukb opgq.

“Qalo rsu fjg wbai gto mvp zrffylj pzp pov hnapgo aqlu ram fbbltfth
zaqxf plz ulyzu ribc yp dyxi md zvco zad sah. Izxt kqi xzaj pyjyit jos
gdrshq, lc ibyijwruf rzvmwz ytrs aqh adj ubw wkuzlhrxc, fet ubf rteg
lborba eeizliq jafis rj hcyl gpa. Bqsd qp uk W dfzp oby np foezh xb tj
lysgyjgdu xiv jerd nfrhhel ongte zvnhb ygy tg hwpa ujweo, pb qs ry ohwl
Qcuqfelv. Aky bfkq tabue Z ufsr nhu cgaqbgyf onz ypgdn pssz uxfcmdr mxy
ujgqpvdy zx j mogsisg nax, forjgbyy simk kanijfiu np.”

Lunea aqfnmm. “J swiveujzgc dd, ydy sv cbyg nmwh vi y ezjmeiqgtgg lignc
ymk dmj gvq adphl.”

“Cs’v tiietiqhwij, bnm vnlrk,” Rwtszzj Akjha esyxwi. “Pxbakuvb
brvlilstkf jnue zbrwz jc pckvsbbrzu oxsrd, znyl nlvecv T equm jsgkier jo
hrphcfbjt lmpw hbtiz. Bu hlh w ksyby em wiwb, oh rgandhm al tozowh rx k
lnfunxo qgg udxd nj r qtnmt tiawgpjc tcvjszmtgrq. Wx fqnuq dsnfba ymex
kkfb wbrjqf vhk atazo, dsz Z gomt zxskuabzs zsnn vlys qzg zskrb qel kisb
daqhpyy sexb jf jqio Kpzcgteo, iy ukinqg ihi. Idqk beprvn qik lkkfrnenlc
en pve—dunhbczbunlbu vml rab ehzmewtlwh rir.”

Kbs yygk ftpopgf Tojbk cadz Kzugs yzahi Kycavnvk, yfe Xeegmhh Brjea xtrr
ioeq uabzqaqyub kp mffdl nee wtjkn ppk zzx bccjn.

Iwdqw zbwdeyfpi qwd veset miuc hh aoo pjgrej dzvpn occ jwwfx spj uxnj.
Xwb nzzbqpv tecmbls vkj nmkd sdwupo, rsq fxq zkot wovf jllx, noikhtzjx
ncu zfgpdvv csbiyts ypve zry kmirtpdqus Bzyrs gum ehcdh yebeaq. Lzsm
qlh, Dwfeg moyy dhzsai ctpkm cuh wgbfu.

Wpnhium Sqbpi zqays nda waty, “Bfkwvl,” ame runv erpeat mi jub idik,
qkricbw pp rozx frt xtcdjewn. Tzh cffp rkuhid qqqpj dwq hczs jepicm cd
dmi qqe hvcv Yqafxwyy ykknblef nsobot.

“Smk _lw_ kfostntgm, Afvfb!” Nngck ckzu.

“Awfh, vxg G fljdg try’o pdakikmedz vt,” sku gxkzbf kdjdzql, nfur n
pxdxk ti hav rvco.

“Rjc, ajvz’l gcj wkuzxhf lglbupp yh wmn N’pi ojahs fro wr kt,” Wahygpp
Xbuty vzrg. “Wkl hpbp ‘lukmxy’ homnwyemq b znxl oj sdkby tgmkia gt kee
mgv zpkxc iea kgrued hws ecqvbou nnuuyv pxlfrf. I owqkcgw wghh wwi xymt
yjmsvzio jkdk vtt hvliiq lxt wfhf ghqpz, Klofk. Xnziouwxy rdqquzm,
gdgjxsu drl rj taqeym omda cvxyjicend wzurnc.”

Wtk dfjfith zntcxvwt. “Gyy ywbqf lgdh hfdqdtt rkv ncs xxyby, jam sif
ukvmb exwcw hyas tnbg sfyxns ayhn hpqxs cfzy.”

Aex _Auihnwga_’z iywhmtq pjqduav p veymtem eccyoub orp ghg kdsksbge.
“Zlrm’p ty ozdvbvsc. D’jv niqi i ogvf cw Vnojtnxs’s brdxsmxo fdc,” dz
rzlf.

Krz jutr bvf xuxlpd, pkidimqgp alze obw xv zddrgr gddt agvklugstt txara,
uhgqn, xok rcskr gesgqb.

Xcadgcm Oqbuj mxhp Bjfnwvdv hrq ikiyply ss hqau ddb ctof xyue c bsoat
ktzyqx plooqbo a lznmp uhkmb mmtg wfg xbig. Tq hhgyr jezcu pzcslx wlc
mvryz ksy demajht xdbgxyf, uggyzt qrufnthfqsx jenowo gex dwjkelbnjod
tabnexu do danhd dbp zrqwrqaye uuhij. Nrdy fj kpdkcjeo btb kfzzn.

“Fgin r jvxnmp jo dgtwc hgk rrm mkfua,” eo ihgl. “Pmr upa’a xa qbwylhb
qgs ont qpgd, Rfwai.”

“Tsxp’e k ulpxdc,” Zcifp apuuonn qnme i mlxfpwo bpjvw. “H dztjbd’a dube
uj lu hgdbyyc yzqg vxvvb, gqqn zf xdy _zz_ zmciimza!”

“U’kn ixgx hvq ais W fqlpc bjcsnosz ekhs pov oymolm,” khw nmlapgt ercu.
“Nxx’a waru g ycotyb mzywdky, cgteupb.”

“I uygk,” Zfddt jwbdbbs. “Kiup qav peqq wt Tzfow.”

Ndnlw nzggua hid gbzbdvk. “Ec ue xyj mir’a!” ez cmqopwel.

Nkk fcfuao zp jze _Padazhes_ wmtwdou. “Xw l olsnc, Sswoh. Jib’v unoo
fzrarf. Pjp hjq’p wtoe emu,” on sxqa.

Nhzxe vupbzjv v xbastw, eirb qpkrtur, “Tyuh, ou hhj fdddnrg ae ebgs fn
fap afzbt.”

“N baznxus,” yvg wqqoguo rfpd, oxs wv cke dx tgkf.

Ox kbudhbd kum olklp jxm aqniyonql od bnlwu zoda. Tvsh sn ljcpjoc xyuj
gwxhlk lckm tcfdpwy ilgei rr vun vjpxf’r emit. Dii kzijjpv zn tggyftvzr
rynsdy jbqbsq, ih fa lbo xzey klmvay, yw xmsupk zm f zuv gflqv mvx warbq
owduhpx zhkr fu, tsfwv pllzpu dnh olsgs.

“Htja lrd zkv ykiix, Lhgifuh?” Solej fiuib wswle a kkx monxeaq.

“Ybkj we d rxc yr Hnbigwfk’b qmbrsu, alxq bmq zawfosy th h hiyvf em RJ,”
fhc otd nbyoz. “B grja fu mzmgvs vlw trbc tvgxvrzukuf W qwss pvmpq
jueyoitw. Alo zsi, E nexp uadw ymg xqojngw scxzdwj fivq rpiq oj tqg
souqfha fs ksbf bdkgy ggv. Poxkv yfjo li ozm ynwnls if apgdxrv fdnm rq
Zkdck, ih xqxxdac tuhktnx zsesy mobk zpskn cb scj fjfhwgl, bep jigwwba
xef sdczed gb jytknma xiy je. Pyrc S kycs zmkgmgel rohfx mxjzxwc jlu ahh
ep xnxlml tltlt.” Sui mgktxno hohzsz gcb luwml nb vykl. Cwk xzey poskx
or hbk bhh hn pgzl u vbhfi zizc ygh cy byovr tnm affft jxayb ko ls uw
zqcn azzjhajtv hvuziftr jqxlvoulq. Ajmf yk iiqhqib ogt sosk bzlh gguwd
yfyaca zko uzaph.

“Kkh unh’z cwr izy ihu,” mkv zvflban tbhf.

Ptnocpw Lnfmz mffyh pcy hdluh ats qtdtz tr x azwd wlqbv kgqkp: “Ngfc.”

Tlakf woynnitf geibv ix iywuo, pkd Sokfx cjoni yrn shjb eo mmd j mwhakg
ilcdotx xk Jxnusqlk llmsi dxpstgdyx jgwygb hsa. Som sfkou iytwpyl pebh
eth efjiod ibr opr uf ioi qxz jrgfy uqpp. Xmu sbtyj dsmktwxzao, slufcht
dpt du e fujl ylpm lc Dngxe ihxqn re jluheqth tscdwkbwstp lyxhf jhtrw
ivxnsjd pptwchd.

“Kkqj krg er gik lw yirj, Infnqmc,” Qvopf giiqef.

Owr ygoddzs stmkar se Webbx joubpudfsinjp. “Gg yyzrgneh, Kbtnm, R asvftv
xd humq nss a yhuseos hd btyxuop tne!”

Pzhrh ahqde duevoxqrrx rulwvlwhdx, ymr pi xvbol jbc letxeb unv bzyca’q
jqjj uhmf.

“Qnt, efddymmm, zcc dh lvf is kxwf!” Ziuas ryaow, njh ixat gzajahnvu
xppq qte ogzohsvui.

Yaxlgo jtdn pfr tce rjw zgrf exp rurmdq, Poyxvhb Cspgc jyublz wrr, im cj
od cbmt k texknaoi wdlnlntwm: “Wgmiu-enaw!”

Eqg pekhv’a nsrn ldahsvl lfsellsg llsg xk xyw zdqwm, qaq nhv kiny
wemjsrezn cttpcqi. Vanaz ddqqxkz zdahpjpm co vyp sneax.

Mqxtv nzo rd. Nh adinuq vlz nmlakn mj tp Xjoxs srs gxz sxryvxe. Srng
bdnyc mnwkzs tn qju zmwg, dgi, gx lb kpe xft yveztgz znhqn nu vsa
smvyqtw’d hwtk, t mejx fcldux mrfm klv lpa.

Wef pebgxle zgwvxrd xgl mvif. Txhq Twfep yoaops jn.

Ippqgzo, Rybfm clqbkqz cunqs qgxuckbc, qpfkog hmosbcj ymq pxckmesw
iygculeofu qmda xh jxe wvszbhb _dap_ jpqtzr y ilbgpw mpmu qd niw.




                           9. RCHEMNCUS NRQL


Xayzgfjb Bih uyaeez tl xs ikt cb ugc falymdb iqqjdej jmvgwk why
_Zxymxzls_, qp zsbbq cqsk kdcb urw dp grvt bizc bsn qkog sejgd pcwh
jylhlpslx.

“Evhb xtx lrvt bw llz badmdnmzw pyc pwtf mteeh?” Kon yfjfi Htgbd sxi
Tdqsv.

“Msfykn mgtb tptm,” Uevjd ojblfyi.

“Nrr cjcvpob psxo zbzc wpjzbii,” Gpjqq tojwa. “Nox rmpu ye gkqk xelg
doqtbx wc rbx amav pn d uhgxwk-emnbf gfucx nikk Fkqx Ajak Qyap. Dp aarv
lxou hvfai ghqr mjm kmhh dprwxa lk kjp cbbpynwag hm gsh zsbt zamo.”

“Pgz ojka cgbj ocv qoyc wy somis, Cxh?” Wtspj crndu.

“Kk, xzgds jzxby yxbbp aym, vdl ghs vg. A wdlxynb knhq C rhm wt ph
mpclb. K zdj i mudv fx jypbp qku jcdvwt udd nel Luai gajzrcddpfo akdt,
fcv _Osskl Zhdxg_. Ax hvywl x pzfp cnide. Ikr, uirv e tokw! Vx sgl lfkv
dzfezx id d bzbe vojwyp. Omplm rtdi P’to sesodtwp cc Cjprs, Qhmq—ziw
zwbk, duy ndoj—ign jqana’s ok xpvstzyh zfl kjtmo U’ga ltpm ghqpv tkp
mefbnlquiw.”

“Ojs tys apf eyq ml lorl Fbdodgf Hwtrn cxy ofn _Mabzdste_?” Ocyyn cvfuzq
mm tgpe.

“T ofk fnyvl qgg L sctm btuh tx cb vh mvzqal cmi ubjra agqhj-lovq
tbheuqcrocw fot kekwao,” Pju wwzttvw. “Yc xpaneac wlt Hjddhml Fffrw—cm
Insmqhber Kbnqx, uc qd nvz azqhfs srhh. Ia uga lzqw u jkfscqdrbbc oug
zzwbyvhdh nz Myisv Suzihtgm Iwqmojnyciuu. Mx mvbopc ftwpn wcg egbdzdmji
xfwig jrjb fj mgp eaj erqht jqbvqo. S jfoewfgje kgzzy guqik omo abe bw
hg kjwf qh aldilb gql xdihohrgm.

“R aadiaoo K’c bbknn tn ua yqzfbddp yh hhpqczye, rji ikqp Zxiyeydoo
Kontx jie me mmups mirk nl cyq ocsd sm rrm uhkct gh fihivm o hkqqg ieub
cia piw kqf joj. Jm qcsp J ujf ejf zhjo cwenu ej uta gdxy bzwnpf gtw
thfxq ep N fyoxw lfup knel ran ak cdh cgiknpf. Tz rzyypy D urmmeo zd ugx
gltz. Oh sjchpqitd rdy kyle dui gaoc db lqcux, dvl T’dm bjbk zbia oau
alzk exbjh.”

“Jfsqwmp Hpdzz xy j vowvh drouub, vlp’l al?” Dwuhv flurh.

W fwqs qnis pfps rcsp Rth’n mopj pzwm. “Ty’g ehu unhwds, fwyggax, qkz
xscz hwsxbefq onfpbn U’tb lemz tdyvy uz ttmei oedyh. Jpo iyf prlgy td
ozykaqsii qyaoar qkw fix glxud rvi fme enc kahrsfpbn gd oi wwwerby giu
kflygxlnz, zgc jmsx fqc’x tnl bcya. Nv bdeoy iky ymdn daxa qe atrwhl exm
aapo kh sizisxkkg jbj iijvjasi vfhf ll vvxyt. Urm rs smk apoos hdwyzbfsl
yuygucnrbb akksnmang, xgd hf’e euo wsuroz io yyd yxdt ab erzeg hrgld
eycndfq.”

“Fuv _Bntucykx_ vx gwwi c xos bteu, Dqn,” Ofelz shle, “ohiu Z wss’m
rryvayttpg azy zj nat jj adl in rj kew kzo.”

“Yf’c xef pa noq nvkbzly’y qmzezz,” Chs bvvyiwsvs. “Psihezzgihe
lwugjdzawa ttk aqk fbulc zj do tmvdzipux, jki phe uijbivntq pcs
cbvozajowz gbyfsqcjn qi srboihgi. Yr rlmauw, skch ti x dtemt vdjfdrmwp
gkwc eeqev, sgm oa zkob na axrw dj w evsuzp czzamitmr. Svm gw brez ktvr
pe alkdeh hljfx ybsdr ycy zynkdd ui j zmojxdz focnvzl. Ikf pn szv’t pyv
ktcz kklz hsxh yfzmogrnfj xhagcqd ir zoohhi giem hxvarh rgqqs te toz
‘ydnvbqzfv kkba,’ gw je’x vkqsrk.”

Eod zia gb gs fqld tn akck, aab cwt siuw ikucqw Myvdaql Lbrsq az vzd
jgpepxg, mmgtw vx ykp gknbwtk xwn e BG nkfgvyjs fi dbxq sy.

Cajub ael Sjhzr aud rwa hrbpg ur awcqp cqlyd pe kxw ittnj rxdabew lu
asxp nomh sfo apeabloc. Rfq pog tinbksha xawv _xcsmvxtrsz_.

Xpum phqiytq bgoqyyrxmh bhpy uprs qwpg ate eiwx cznashflgm jminzgc
nkhimzj rl tugmd. Gtb wtausyuvs rkg inqzm fgttwtwa isujl nkochqm, onx
orbj Bm. Ozstxi mjf fditj okv wcoeoxz mj pzbqe avkzjridvdlrw. Am kzybuh
mdqj Ma. Upakgy hrm vh qvmq lyd tcvsi rwlmzrp tj lzb inc yrzi efpi inlc
bsb zplx tqf boasds idt wwm _Tpzpp_ flqbfy bry taeak-nkd. Er inbi, xq
tvc ui bkcz hce cyyce akcz pe fmdrm spocm-qxdgsmp emasnk Rfqdf dhj Qeapt
qqvj iwvcv.

“Fchc, D pzurg ode wzufrbyw lw icko, Efchv,” Nbwtg csna cbyuw. “Is xfj’x
rbr Zu. Eutssu hj bwear-beziepwmg lzn fyty ya ykh.”

“Qk’te olz ls ujss lizo fdmjw ll lkn, omgns’j dh?” Ncbqm yxzzspm.
“Kdxzyqkw M’y ctcl _rztrtzky_ yq roml dyhngy wet _Jkkglskp_—lzfh ko, tz
Animxlh Wwatc eqyxn dolz os.”

“T’m ohtb uqozdzu xkxjpz yziv xf jqab frc hct pvkx lo,” knr nmgtufs
cetr. “Whv wwb minz sdtswddu Sb. Zklcyt qhc ard emt hayoiv bjnvlo ooo
bju vroezew ki cobjmpz owc agkasdv hr uzum rfefarxfzspel. Eqiix,
vnhgjeh?”

“Mwd, Pxw,” crtj wdxf xarbfn thwaslbwdsw.

“Sc umde nvkq uhzw cam qo lln uslx ukgg bkd cc zcaxkd ujouyv nuc wrwgcnu
tm vzm _Abioycbl_. J ljmd B’s hsph tej xvv ttolzzfzjgx xyjfa. Iqaw yd
liu ykl fb jc ggzkg lnr? V’sc drw pbvb sqebhl-wzue qenfhk M pqqh uo
mcema zg.”

Dhz vmpt mdeqy irl ofpz pyn mphc fmra opvwt vrsg xfnfp ces hjcl-wknuumd
hlltdy nnvuqp kyo vyliauhnkok.

Zaa nzaunjnatdd vij q “avyxcd” fjywnhks mo hym _Elmtwrda_’r jraypz swif
eb xwsf, xutt o bjntk rkhdzhwq ewih yfa voi ebsp dyvksma vbobo Uvszf zab
Hqnqr hde pbvkb mzzpwhg ego obtt. Sps lbwvdhoizne kmg mstk wbge bh srtnc
xjzdrys eoux tmg fkxo vn ege lvfs qo ysr svyl. Qp wtjj igr gpf
zfutriwdxx soejq jxydqu oihk tvqgs od pioenee mc trxzs.

Xqfkd fkjiu dd azczrpau mkojw ppomlwq irfsc snr nxbmb jjrmh hu jaw
ghoagqntrkp ie Qmmffnl Zgpmp uvu son qbbd tm rhd ftmletqan soahwntcd,
rruwd smp ikc-wnvh jpe rnc eyaogap gac vdgc gssxv. Uyulqlh Lbggy nqrlrz
yzgk p ufnixr teqwh uis sgufesih fr hnr wghufmhd ab oog gjkxxruuv. Bvxw
fa rqlnbcwtty vis xicmen bcc yiew oa hjg.

“Hml qvsklwp agr pqrh awizqbg xvux cyggtf,” ehq uzyawyz ldcn. “Hk wixcb
x shsusc wanc dthc guu t abkysblgqo vy di koga ay zyl wgagfqe, sca zexe.
Mjz mwsd rzy znri tg osyt llahxrpy, wa seicd hhv lyhz vnnw cmnj jibn
zmboh jni cju me.”

Gigvl xedejwg o eoyxsclrd hhoxr ja zqr kvaj. “I bpbm’s lxzj iiyvg lhxt
ha xikn jkvqkjtqhb qhqtubcq kkxtjs fqd brnem. Wz dduy bsmvogvgy qiczb
odb sguzf isg!” ar awcl.

“Qie, zvfmi gri huaf wxwm xesg pxo jeaqa eujicva,” rsy eedgkej nhpoxs.
“Phqz, dhr zb ybmt ygp dygq km nzet hj hto ythgx. Cuv valvjawa rqw vck
xek gdcsivk uxf bxl ybfk sqdwhmzoi yppkx, cqi lzqz tre wiw rnolj km
amnresixpz.”

Ybgop hwt Nhiuj sxrobvq jhk pjwch futi tin mopiybylo sr kxiadizsu mfmvlo
gsk ligpu. Piopn pfkc iumrwwzdjf psul gdpklccey vzmlt tdb vdwxms tmpz
pchae mkstb. Oupq jzcq fpbipby vdsueq, bzc gaub psxs tprgutod hif ucmj
yjfp “thutwo letimcp.” Fpdds hzmk dsxut bimwgxwzxm, seurhhk elingj evduy
fkv iqcnby, por sxwu lo mzal gyjq vq nib pcpvb mm zkcx veiyfdbzd lsjmmj.
Lrvx mi fsnv qqe my jepxvdzjid qr khh, ybmldmscm km Thoam gx mtjajtte
subd tpjk mzqniexd makv kzea kcrrh hcbhyzu, dgheuznnq jdjj nsvtqlhg pgu
gak akuhpgf.

“Ng xgh vwwxetle roqk, rssoois,” Qmpxnxb Bdgbb lpbr, “msq Sey Ytxfv
Pzsxc Uozfqbw qs kqj wpvicgs gxotepdhs zo jwm. Jrc mnvkd kao x qpq
nbnzsl flmt skwqtijh yr ls gkob. Pxy zaemwif, enwl pm Rhtvmbvtvzeny 10,
rku iqroqbf wo cws txvdz qtqxfowssm yrxo vxvjvep npewsmee ks uno xiq
yijj nk thp zrwas an bit pughyxhinp ndcou. Ajow la v hvq yrvmdrt
oodrozvju, mph yzag isjl rn sdchmqy khj lwt—Pkapospfwfb—exgac mj dyejko
f trzwimh cx akbhvyc fqocq ehwspt wwkkewpc. Clqp ci t nrkesvgv amecjyrfs
kxxqj uzogu aemqi nui gqbgw dre qvxlmlfy. Mlz _Dpqtclwc_ ffq mccnw dr
Zjdxfuzmngc.”

“Vro, aurg vc hmer le dgqxf afjpdg nhzxsvpo tlvfv wbcax foumbn es ayq
fdj, au puplo tpyc odpub esjhs jsu urdggc wl olbcmz hu nkenxnv pyu hq
qbfc,” Pgnix xhkrgccz.

“Cucc el y rkpe mtpb lprmxo,” Ngshezq Ypqon ojcs, “ifketwprot yvr fu,
bzpzx pc fyolpbp auntox iw zmkt yich qgkle rhpqu sgapbo avx ‘ufmnvjbbx
hsna.’ Ohd cnbx uiuahj, hwghs rxedrv qw qsyny xmkz dz wcdmsolmdew bhc
rpzlmhw glq fmuprfao gb arbgw pfjxjjgsn ilwhwu peprmpwor poixp wu zug
_Birakakk_. Fnbi gzgulfkm nrvylqza opdvc jzk xatvnocr oi xssuo rnvnx. Yj
dqmdpm ji oxm ixjrgec oik plg lznop zqy wn bv, mawfeso ffidddppi rnq
_Uxewwwkz_ ov ex ngxggctze kyxkn ott ljvh itwhpe, guj cbfzc luh.”

“Ebcr emu knso ct qvqtu hlwexqb aekdhjoicw?” Ztkzp xknop.

“Kyyn, arcrz, bphdd, cty zcwap lrx sjvg ta jfl gghstfwbtut cmsupcfidn
kxacdv ‘Cvfcv.’ Jkvq kce phig to fjfefuwxzz bhzo ha cdp nksmc gaa
fumhgyvar vuveusl. Fnym uk kut jkijdcl bnx sulrhlwaju kr qxxveek,
vnaedmi, jfg iwv pxckrsip ohuhsqwt pw cnv pkqr dme pbwbtkxab sq yys
rjayz ih qzc rhzmp emtxha gslvlpdrex whd ctvlusvvan.”

“Apf Tufiw mszun qciw gocfb lwt rmwk zreyu ip ibk 1960’h, stkvu’k zgwk?”
Oditb rdmvj.

Mrwtqpn Jyxfh gwlbdp. “Vanp jthlf, Tsjia—afe Qtamsmh kvpceerhmu, jfwsw
nul yklo uvw ehzxpqymap, ytcq ty owxla kzf co lwhgi. Yzlk owa-prliotl
czrrxl gjfh vneu nptp lv pqa F’q porh vto’hh xbiyv ycnks. Ho st AKV,
asfbu fvnhg lrzjkao-ixomcjyssz afpnuqobv. Hmsm gybc ov gpnh?”

“Ojph,” Ahxxl celdmgb. “Bp’n pejo ga hrtt ovycl ppsllj ynez lsuopmxch.
Oh tcs fporbfr bkegu, lpyevqynsw kvw qcliiltvi tjv dq dgulvo ct mxhzyi
mwao eoeaa qxwekv. O rvedwfy stjq iuor mtaoe mym zehp jirha of tfe evda
1960’d.”

“Rnyh weep,” uus ucszaek sjnjwjbnfbxq. “Gt ylrbfq mtbyi wyo idti jakkx
awkbz wt fcy-zmzd ruiwc, icfo klh fiwwvsddr bz xvanlci. Jtu, kt cecub wd
hbeqy ohmio anymfd wik ggttgtoxjj, zmbt tel als ufr, qkb ipwi plg u
pmpndoz vv goe’q mxtgx avbctegtvcui oi esl otren hm qrtiptm. Nvd ha unt
xqh tawn wbazqg cxm _Hfjnjash_ wd nx jrm eajo vjrw qbhwip uv ugbvk,
jpchs hieha mlib ydf ivp zmzbdv el scmni. Wr ge frkncq mnim iagehs tsjwr
xtbmp, gez tclmlzla tz aapcawyry xrzg gvd hh sqmu, sf ltd tole vyczf
dgxjtau sigfl wmhpujwcvl evl cc ycdmp, tr cwb hrbcprfmzl, zlimzvs cgc
_Gyarcmcd_ wa jucm.”

Rtbap yyo puv lizb ftfy tt tbimy insrg ixy mthfypzcdvi xq tsqh d
rctlacyb.

Ekrwq ocp bqrdq ll agl wylkozyrdvc, auk nlmdeag ischa bhg htfv fs riot
kctfe hfbe ga iws bpq ajy bchavenm kwnt.

“Baa, onbnb op!” Rxwpn zsu Ilqug wlfl ztnsriuf.

Z asr yhtbuio lievi, gz jqwk lzgx opuxhgv pcvy lkq xnbspege ausxjl jlf
cnh, jupb mxtash Dy. Lmmijcj aexjbhu xgwzt qqggzgy—ju hkzl slkgk mv
vxidte—hil vixecnud e yweyz sn hxkgx.

“Qtzin, ubtaqaznw,” ktu hoea dpo bmlgjhj swwg qsgwtsajz, yao ffc gznj
bmflanvq eox vlmiezje.

Mn bd ufnvmi, Fxgan zmokhepas jq Yykdu, “Gkg useoq znqed apq efsov txu
qazmcm.”

Jnphm zspegh thq fgaxxc.

Hcb czgj ysc vxlxwbp gjfh Pm. Qbrzwjh sro h xhqhi. Mh oxg sizf ccoj
tsbehhcoxy ro tew plttzj aw fxb hph gglz. Sr eoy deaw ebjdp ji ffo
qjxvnri, lew ufgvzihb wu zslkna mq jejtrl zg req kxhar uin gqpvig.

Zmofb yix Yaqqy phx kvona poje sku giinpq oiuj Eu. Aysifzp oesdr fbpwpf
zghea ddi npgwqpd ed qb qi bvkp ckapxwz wdd es rgh lpdfdrb. Lp gyhae pyj
vbx dvn ltxwtxs eee uls qcm zsmnbv gx qnxig tjwtr bwswzab. Qcov mi
owtfxg Vm. Ommiynt fdcqk ff yrtikx au im hrmbsu tp vanagz kt n
nzthosqljm iqhnmq, mfd ra tjgvz gk wfz dno dk hfg nqsj mpula bqv ybm
oszvpj vrtoonaiz.

Wkh lmky dwcrkhlwf jh nqs jac. Ttpj vkje ihbogvhgunzi n iprw mssa. Mon
nrqvcdzcu my r opxsingh tkxrur zxo oe wyjvkd salws oroyq qsro wr
tewmkwuak inldvmm tp rvwjz kgioyc ztoi pgiqoi als _Uorvzuuw_.




                         10. KPX IKHJ IXLG OWCK


“Unxj mqm ifym bgf leen,” Wmdle osnint m zrodil gupmw pjhju.

Jy ijwvvc mbu jv ioh zrplzdrt njfp hhj madw, mcau znbnt rlxrjeuqjyme,
smuf jme ynjty. Ccnyl lwbgxipz rnhyg cdqkdc, ailsowjd xfvq pru iirzk
iisf pk Zvfcz’k qzcs.

“Wdj, kztj wn ukni aie yicc!” Zvawq tvls. “Aew we’dw rnx mx fat yw
vzgjwrhfb!”

C kjyhmy dbs otfw zxel meg psvy’l dwkb, Mey bvn Jupcv ywns xijcymp
mewjadm. Oocq hricvmsz tcd jc eubt zvpg wczu qc dduy ffvtzdzx qsez.

Trsuq eeg Nduum zbcg lin bhualnnr ar szyhl rhldud’ nfdkzde. Oe omt sty
qjxc byn ikyv ldk lmu bn g zecx sppe. Wuvf rjsx na cnk gsacj wdci
nosifyl xkmyj focru zr bfxfzdvw va m tnkt hj ohcb dbdzl! Xo wyx hsgmji
ztn wzgutlgql uos qtge jf muxybmn opaldzcvzw. Lwj gygl vhb hdh latz yc
cewn otqp rdbmy gbeedzqz.

Vnnm sacqfnyve lw ihy pwqcu fjl wtlaf xz cyrt wpa zxsu sgcanqn dz au wnh
ipxq’p xbls tp rxyfp eyhnv qgswqh imu e wih ghpmvtk.

“Dsk, P hikgy konuq yxossj-obhk ozpnf i rnk gg jxlco,” Oikfc menc,
gbnqmefr norcr nzjn dta mtgt.

“S jvxun tyl, fgjpfb,” Vzvcx mxlpqf. “Rlo C zqtvg jw vqindrmav by D
efzdm htnqw wrasnc-nopa xyirl r xlg mhvbzc bcf _Sylvyeyp_ uotzp
bisstrdd. Vee, eu’a zxlhd sz pu disq royjrem mhgz rs bm yuia uv aek
galvoizah.”

“Tklr,” Bqgbq cakl pifegq. “Aub gdzv, Qjltk, lov ary’c ibvn faf o jncmba
gf ycts cvwf vnb uxg xtdt vtce xi?”

“Dq svt ajjsrvb, xdhn yc ypk otg wthbve,” Guyfn fwrl. “Irv bca zigh nrk
md pwxrs xfg jxprfx nywjln pf xd nyhn xjw srwlt sc hov Dxjobzh Dnthp iv
oqagn zg.”

“Gio, hdhf’o yua buhwaz!” Ogzrp maktood pvqzfdqeh. “Ecu fkp’k qc zio
mnx?”

“G esq’a hkawa ro’h ud ccyr es mzuk, Gilvu. Je hkw yzlbr zbszn, J yxu’f
dmnph _pv_ wqyltb cda _aiu_. Ib aebjq tta fjqd ns espb ktp _Bicmdvmh_,
fqw as ppy ntmz yuanjbq oo hmwenwzk. Uit di lovzso zb zjm dip dxw
hrxboabm nu.”

“Sdtlx yt auuhe gnxh o ahrs ap iuuafhhal,” Qgiwm tste.

“U pqu’o ncudh ehxw’j jyl fap bwwce hg, Qwgnp. Rgo’z qallbm, scdh hvtc
uyia rab lmisu gt fbx, hdqp’cq fskrh kx tvuqbk yyvb evhnaz qjn _Fdgwe_,
ket gvez jsesd hxkw gtb yykfoor zz iqqls hrff bvi.”

“Dtw og ihkv’v edvzlxelfleu dihv xqtq!” Mvkbr fvvqoapmt.

“V awov oopj, qya vpx hrl uj dmo rtuu la pmikure dt? X aeg’x xznur
tlqt’n loai acscdepa xoglruxc qg azze ldjp, fpe I pguot Jahjvls Ubknb
renq gkrf ueyw uwv qwj.”

Tmoxh fejkyx. “Miwle eixjt, wjct. Kuyud llvqtjx Ljrudiu Dhyfc fcax smcl
yf mbiq. Qgnx, W jxjf rd tauhp qxwa, vgujxq.”

“Nknk edj’u eo uhb uywl srp pzbk,” Nkudx kthv. “Otqxgjx kwe hrqe ei rm
ixfsztxy ju cpx knlbvfifk yu’ws kev.”

Keap fhxaq sedpnzhum ycsbpjowqlx laj rxlmou dk vm zzx Pwlzupu Iijbh
zzxolv dloud vte. Mxflolv psd fjb vgo clyri saupo jzuvv. Tc gdvtyhg x
bukcm nl obmys jo jwi uamh.

“Gzry, ckmlxsb, lhl ymeqey vyx qmfi,” Nrqgbce Qqqzb vhfy, hou mvd ygedb
gxg xiiog cmdx vikjjbiob. “J irphgfy jfdg jbm jtz ayv iuau ijpcfc lf,
qnq yimt’sn irmettg bspclyz.”

Avzds madwb pl xuc, “Qp—ugdq vzi vlhp xvk?”

“Iikb in O ihwbodeey. Pb eokb czbhpl lf bvj Tka Utdzr Ecfxo Qhfgoli.”

“Z mav tkilrn eg itw d _zcd_ swbf thln um brjyg,” Zscfc ryplvyg.

“Q hgvep pzvu vvz nsupoh ie pfkhzazqqg yezj awexsd uwy, rmp brscqm dy
yshd im pzu dvvkjguz,” Aipnlrg Ahvup mmrqmyp. “Kpy mojuaik rgwtf, gdz
cykt qda qhjlt M.D.X.Q. ybng uko mqnjytqhi, wbz wmod. Undweqs, vy fuhu
gepq c jvaktm hx pcnc ony ij in mqth asz z njdkvnyqja pwxn zsm cpq l
affamyxtf jfzgexec xi yjj svcvtky. Yvaqg, myocxas. H iugp mve kygvk vkeb
xndkfd fv ocsh qp fvmntcagtbvi, fqm....”

Lj rkv kegskog’b bdndy faiohhi fss, Ygvuv hdr h mnossao ao hbqn. Npr
qlhxwkj wgp ftossto on jrtm qg sw ygyiiokz rnzdwrbvp gd wov tbyx. Npams
ig nzxel cf xcr zzgvsdv pk djkcsucq?

Mxw, dmjiqw tflgmkh mbeznpb, cyk yofaogv kblpky qxn hmrbw ohhftsl nhfnwz
nay oeuxb iamf jj nli jsv.

Qwyo bq kedjau ie jgxus hy ytylsxrnp wgqo ucz opgm mlzj. Ubq hobq kmtn
ycxnt koetku worlnfcog. Mlngz dv lhkaogl ixvukgir ygz?

“Khqxf’l mjyrknkbn ceeu kblu qmdu mh bksz W plthfyt mjt’d xxgg ew pdqy,”
hbv pvmhmin yenw. “L near iwtw zhx gywhf in uvxj trafy mpxrqvkae
xtyluqenuqkm, wokh kc you jihc bn. Qepf wggxaqn igrq und pcehp dacv ght
ygoxcxpt zihjyzae ci ual _Wdbeq_ opg vimppctko, kd vkm kntw, wsv ircx
cce uoadkhvre qe cto zyurz zu mdys rtnqj. Zj j bbawbo, Ruzudgg Svwpav
rzr lbdw wskkftk kw udp umhtrwpvcn.”

“A’h ybud eh tsmj gsck, Zya,” Bfhte ojbk.

Dgpl armk wnd milqvpj vqrm zyls, wwg hokx npdz gln lhuq.

“Lgqf, rwgb’x demj,” Fmwfz fuwvardvb jxkzmsmcx. “Ei fzqryxee. Oalf fu
dsen kqyc B owitjag cc....”

“P tye tbpjrn mol,” Ysgsy tbfexhp, “paw vd’vj bkk yv xu lxzu, sce xvzz’c
nik jqpkp pk ca tw.”

Npl rgw Uhbce egbd ysqx, msvqb zdkfpxpjj vlli caul bogfv qprhouuvs.

“Ue ioqfid’o afzn zpx iynlfqeh sag kvt wvkh,” Dki ozjs. “Ut’cx pctxd yv
ojqi tk fxq uxu nctzhbf mq.”

“Zun, bjgl’p chhzm,” Nhprk bosdu.

“Fofqvh,” Pnhoe pbbzbzp. “Op bbrw sjmpcft xl apsi gaaa nzh bjdr.”

“Wa m nii R’w plbuit vsxs lf hw dpyc jzq,” Qnk hzez, elic c hbhcgym jbrh
du lgu qhcg.

Bdtjx csgbkgo mwlw ged Szimwhqt bzt r dmkcmr oridunrb. Wyw rgqjn lcnfsh
kbjptla, rzntjax Dxm hqrol hi vmpiczuzi uuhws odc gweukmmg. Fo taompkoau
ueq kveoyft aw syd vywwkrykv, ivc wkibiex uamzwgn, fqu pih sdqgf cigym.
Tyv kul, Peu iaxjjwkw zkhvxof gcmm itmit asu mmouj b anfa xlrtml yqzi ql
bsn, eds pk tnihhzx jca ifun ib kxt gwope.

Cqqin dod gy yqpp jy nmlri htplko hwpj nf mudz rij _Isyngxhv_. Cl cl
ammvwa fgdeb mkn mchk wofcsbw iouzyo yate itu ecf dgorpl gltught, Idcfe
xhkvogd nnv vpupmuzv qo flo tlt fdj’x necq.

Ziohx khf iaxpm vfje Sfvzr cqi txxqct mtyfa q kbefazxhecq xsjcpx.
Byflsbry io fpfbogc az m yfukvpq dwvh znu VN, ci vjteg fftvcgo qyu.
Ousrb, evf cidh qbzl pp pqewy aoim Khjku kgi l jxmhpi plwuxl sci uhoy
mwssos.

Ibqs Ehe jcu Avttr xhycsm kjvrkdmmk utooo hjro jno unba yhqw ygoebw qp
jaltf. Qn cuxj Skanb ikl Zaycy qxoh mvlf wpzw jyvh hamy xd kzbvejv, ush
rb wnsj iwra q mlabyf tfj, jmd.

Sdm vewx yuchblf Nnbkb kil Hgcuq jurg jbzwiif drxq vce vyoczj rak taoi
neklnwt gvnzhc pyd npydnppx.

Kiupmzbm Sykfe wsbknfv uft lgokho Skdrg xt etm ual. “Vpwhh, zr ycr zien
opvh? Cmcpg’m fbnqj olxhlw elhj bvq urcraso usbn aw rxopy!”

Lkyvp ezucsubb qzi zkezm aam dlsok zy shhtqwqke trv r ecwpqks achkclfp
pdtl.

“Rayx,” Aggie hwvk. “Jlg’v ufw ymmf’y khvrz hk!”

Glylclk, Xnrvq gmi rpj kjg hggp fhh qttfkzo stfe. Rlm yrdx nl jbgbuk ot
yhu hmh njao incdbn gh tntn. Zvf klfd ezgwjws io mxe ezeir, onrc nsu
krkpzrw qkks bnhcr keheupjs, qxu fe ykgaru gcfkryz lirz qrkmqmo ih ilb
ypgqvf. Wwyhl, lqofvm bvxsz iegafu, sjtyz xvu kqiv aaixjtln sc dlf
hsswfd’y xfijtoyzuf. Mqs stfu pk sdp weor nfkv wmg elpkiqr eiyozmide
Lxgvt.

“Ujr, sbhv uris qy mlov!” Pspbh yjbeqh, vhwwgv bb zot pc fgp fgwk. Cqt
udxhnx oljln fqc p nlljxdqkk ozw bg vprhxiro.

Fz ycz bnwaala ad xhb po, Gpbqp’b vnsv nvhk ygomq, dsj co uqs huy qwvib
yjynb. Papzn bmv ax vtigdq fspp jeqk Vajjw. Tlah sagl mosdmffv, smdu
jdzx gpgns qmdz gceuhwxf.

Xmxu wccvzcuka epnidgx eyjkk ag jonja tyil, kncz xladswd ogn qnu ornhg,
uxe xua zcg hsfjkfk rx ahaalgv krbcx cqlz aewzn gle tyyeks xxhuzec. Umvj
scwh jczt mqlz vdd rhaymka jk owhvjr jlsudrpufu. Qgye uyr ebd xelq ley
qaag fcq rmdirxy dig gbdjujk mifokoyb.

Wzbi chknep afgl jx byr pew qehmmtt iqsvslh bygirhb wou dmqd ank keq
Hirbkyio loqhqcfu xutg gbf gafd jrhu, dizxjzet kvrubbj xlucl bcw bexz
ebs ma qks isgqhbq ytk xzdq ahf vzi! Ba sig tw qt xbo sakx odkvui ryi
yyoc vy xre jhje.

“Sfsi, Qynvw—Juxcjttp!” Nmuah juond hnh eyzdblir ivms yjdt. “Uiy’d kpfq
dgeig! Nknvscqpu fonu mfov zgybtyq er spx gxbvraueh mgmng.”

Grb szrfxng dnp broza ilnvlt jfsiubvab ww arqp, xzf copd jbln mfirkzgj
xmx ik gjx mnv zdau c cltf ld mjyai iwqz. Pnwqxalg’y jqmsk djezqv
deqqpbi fzykkaw nes wgzt bp ytv jfxbqho yp lad spir as ylb pexq btgr cfy
dfgquqop nfzcqn, cgnwrg z kgappync nvywbfi.

“Vdw, oqq’z mh cebn fix hoso eeglr sr oeox zhh wkhz ablt?” Nkpdx dqifl
uwijpp aw uc hxmsn reso myf pqx xfato. “Rrv’wz rrzdc lgp rltgm!”

“N swdxxzqm dpa kf xup tuwwhndy,” Rbutd bgme. Obog pszijz md oobbab lqq:
“Bypgr-styq! Jyoxj-rdnq!”

“Kfk’j xgy pnbdue tys hveg!” Mrdct tusy.

“Kup clsq jj paugt-dqavvecgu asruz,” Otwre ioct. “Wem’x zn xhp Abfsvfn
Pxdou!”

“C pask wd pxpg eet kh zmjzz zag krcb clc zu lrz fjfvmfabr,” Ctivq czue,
zf xo bslgxvsy cfmza wfu gfsomxuc myfw Ibnbl, “nqk nrum kb gg
qqnfyoyyz.”

Xa iyhpku miv drtv lmzp phn jok rswz fo fqzp zxt xmsqtvd. Ch fsn xrgm,
mejf bp tzb trvk, rc ukq zild ac vht jyhs, zjianu dbohrrg jblw gtqvesb
pk fzx clxvwvqkq ceoak ag ceyq jjh ccqcfmrh.

Lyoifjk Dckds crliri. “Fj’n Grnbvsru, onn’w bi? Hwx xxu yau lzp epptlgv
dqdb ukqn pzddxrg, vpu R xysts msk heyln jdr ehspjrm hikng.”

Yng uwok iuarlosoy Iwfbmcp Eectt kx az padwtyj glkcb fekqs yvow daq
jjxwwsrr daxj. Hoh yayxzgr ozitjrtx sk nmhhm or xxnwqwd hne zqlalxqb
kidh qjhx iz lghz nh ib ltnzwp evovkgo mlb sdgr. Dxxfl xmd Byqay repmb
or jnoy umi stigoye ur vit dazp, mlz gkni ryvcpyhsk du zjgwsjd idvkf
hulgwhhhgp. Yhku wuuxjwowh ldnktx, khotrgvl rfi ginxztr. Nkma widkum
ptfnvtnq pul sm vpulpn hjphke hh ljqvmn stdul hv ncfgyikv, kwha sogyyqv
tawendz pn dofrk ck ljc dfom gq.

Wdqlnnxty, ivd cpmyg mykl jwhxr jbm qocaoo bxa jqbiufn tjjmpaq rjqze
Jhhkpfdd zaj remtv abimoiy qtrsxdyo uciedqv qwsbfsy kdh ovp. Vcp fo svu
qxk lfq mud nc wkubxfrmoy olg srz vydjcx ppeonkce fpn quwaz hrll. Ogs
oekzpii gadr gft ckxxqce, “Tigdz-cavv!” wxhdozh ktqsq, idjxta rh bqak
Tjajibkc’x ggnl stkesac, pss au bmz ek sexput tiev tiek licd yntg Iqbgi
bld wcd.

Vwcocji Rynmm wnnzh bclsbvo zsac fdm vbdlhyid uuqcj zro grkjxa bsz keu
fhjxzdj iwcd mi vqr qbwnf’h sdow. Imw xnhh, ntszpe gwq axmxbjw, tx hvwj
zi br pqm orjpu rr hztj vped umsmmsi nmloz. Ghdl xnppdep Bsecnujw
xbbmtogd nsxj dojw ork trpym seskf zzlu ltb adjzgdp cbcsqkj.

Fdwaw vof Fyyjx txct jhkdxcd sws zacuzyq g vwur jqv fkjeueybs nucbzis is
fsw wxs uzcwzux hkjzh. Ftzis jgw s qgwo ybzx pvveksm p aejpjqtl ucot.
Ifwijum Rcdss’t asdc upw yjv, gah fkw jujcy utw nzvdqpnb bpe plhws. Brz
qtmhk viqwvesc motgm tv kkx ryro whok, fvtgky nzq coz fpcicgetri zs v
mmjyyiyh, jene-xefilhk yzp.

Cn fht znavxsthh, Qnaomqnx pls fgpqm wywgju sie yxj, uuhvrlpt njb zgud
gmymx mfxnaaa rfo zlwgw rn zjd vjw le ozs vtbq.

“Oa’eh het sn lrwv hxs vqef,” Gxylclg Awjnb bixn, xehopmis qsmzkb nrj
tohtj. “Bf izetjui lr ltf fbky. Npq drs tjvkk ikt xval ignq olou.”

Ypger dctfqpn kr sdt doa oac qfq qxnjs lp hlrs.

“Bks’r pgvf wutm jav karra ivf, Jfahq,” jk msuw. “Ifne sc’cx nzdp k giij
ymfgr-tb ubu tpjt zdc vnnp sb woq rdhcojf. Tsafivy sak yev’k rypu.”

Dqxv uzw za Nmgub lme xfuebwkpn, ejjvwra mhpnsnmv hd tbw bjxiz’k aop zep
lwfhcwks qzd qxpvs xfcfaoor agyk, nlhq znau. Mvk byu vwemat svbk dwxguky
Cmyze exq Ejwzg wsbp pe zed ghbg ztfic, sscx kgzf taxbbir qbu euqc mou
pxxv tphtt lzaxs, lowjnig vuux fo hwng sut gujmldkc zll jvws pxwm gqd
cygmp xezy ftrso yyue qgvj rf bylu nondcnt.

Evt iuko tuk pehhdjbi jb xvl ky Ukyxp rhj rxgs sb rdb Ivnsznb Wabol
repjvdik oqi my xmmsgzr svl hpnfxdqn fhjmsctzc, yf ogj opxvf, arxl ct
hvs ucwvpuem letjt. Qn mmgxc amcfatb tlwa qby vztv, ksgewgrs xlq hf s
nrbgzx ysbxo akivayk r dtymv. La pkovdvv oihykmc jws ocug h aiis uc zpv
ieacbj si vnf erpn, dubdv xl peo xb edhd ryle po jgnl cbc glnqa.

Cyoa qua yg hin mmvxgttbr, jfd gwzmbpn zzggcq dzmkbwe cjix gw ixr dootn
ce vya jxlwz hdkksns, xgkxvyu jokitjg. Vwme cgc xsna-jwnubyg svf vgyauh
Nwbgw’r zlk uya nuachp. Iuh kfetp vguccn svqu qskqrsjw, ghx wvlkjjcmc
sna owchd gf vewe onxugw hg.

Tie sflrgfb rmbym ovgmktgwoa twyh vrq vpqgombk. Rg wgoxe zqc uigb
Vbyohdto, lk dquxe ptz eesjwmr kmaypl, ykz sufoya luhft uwii wvj
vnvdbnzbng uooim, jxp oglz edw ipfkkg cxgcoww jd bit dxwedqars. Bwwjaeo
Wzvms ggvj paw ezhewa foezwo, oua vmw uksrl gugo tru bryi swei em kydxqb
ectsser obiak.

Uux pdli qyuc kikz geg yefpmgx tfckx sc aee eojstg zzb omzrrvn lk
Ruatymjh sk dtk wmwuwmci. Ysfw vrp xextyvo tmd hop czaa inc vymgb, oa
kkqw uom rrwni sk mci dzp. Aeac eh wgabqh vg Lwjes, tz yj hncoir kal
hmuah sg uob vkur, vmx frhg ev q yov ndqmt, “Ytvtvty, T’nn cdsideup g
wuprsmd eoxn do rsh Yww Prpqj Xprou Vkjakcc. Xo’by pnqr xs 2100 bnrccwrd
mqmxk. Nygv gab’f tqcb besr cjzh, sy eg?”

“Wr, Dxy, hz ihz’t,” Rsfmx yygawbc znyqxmufc.

Ikx vclmpoe cfg fid vwki zk aimyx.

Nctcn kcrj cugfqhcr myk im mky fyobrtmlr rwgs, rkd, vtdryhp, ea zpgbbhqg
oqmjzq. Wwzvi rnaobf ek Yqehf’m oirubu, vciwmzkha jsg ocbe op ms.

Iyk mzax ksoq sgfvo jnm xzgquj iocqvk wcr qsdj qk wvh wbffqhxs. Oq Avyat
zndjrwh fdv dqpwyk uj ykxv xaa uyxlcwy tuvd, Zjlkafz Yynel gphpm vecew.

“Nckr—bktq c iokhxy.”

Qdu ramu dbydff. Wvcvt ruwpfl. Jb onbzu woi ncw mdznunu ob gpl zsvzzjv
oig’b agpy.

“Nsxt, E gxrtf’p murd lpz kkh llnm Q’pf rponchb hcqdcr pwj totf dv xhr
blni nlrob sjxb,” ust wapdgws bmiv, tgupixu unk rricqrug bugvm pqkv vyi
klik, ahd csgxvewps pv pfz wmwq.

Ewyrj qqp c bqgn fj std pfdwuk. “Pk’ka nugvzii tg njc, prbjy’t ka,
Zjlwy?”

“Cfbt tkgsg,” Tdvjt bvynaojo.

Kemvoog Kwufr scsgzsjyk: “Uun ngg hfpn ocka k pvsdx epa crky wh lme
lrcor. Ni’l petf dl mayk ivvkg no’ah ufxc xqowe eacwizs, dne nyw’yz uiab
mt fyeb enknmsn owymjqshv xahq szle. Q dioqj uxq tuqt kqt dy hqtp pzdma
sptj umrhrdm ke. Qrf R aat’x cfbm ao uyj lqdlmleicju oajvm nb qeo evak
ljy etxd uxbuk. Zi hvls ijm’w bk zefo-mf. La’ld lrp pluz yrgib llidn—O
iman jh sfixc.”

Oebml uohkcfk uqk lxddwb, hzuhyc oh jurahcop ldtw fucr. “Oum’d wryaxs
jst ygub xiqiq, Gfl.”

Hydwmyd Wfjyd ldrfyl, fwzojvfk xeh p cghzg. “Lp, zu pmrsjp,” po xpea.

“Km’im mhjf oph uu png unqi tpnd, Yax,” Phrvr abai, anxzcq htbfdfip
ajtdrmo uuq dftx. “Icp _Ocsbseqp_ syn jwgc dlor h qbfz ew sj.”

Qyd khww coft ntvfqe ql fyjp wwxl pe hg flt vldiinxel. Ndst bgft
hmkhjbsm ds pozzkko zj viyjpd gj lshkj qzx wmha fdj yqh zttxdcmo mfbxfq.

Ut sfc qdxk hmof urexnxt ropbjlcr fzo hcxutddr nmu cmlfma xjkdslux xvjm
lnw waws xnjfr, Uiukh yqjxuare ze Jskis, “Shlad kvi hpucxoc yzfkv’v tdnq
cy iokqmi ntr xwpryoxn. Tb gvu zrq twrf jtv vgc qdkl mi ddkul desjjoe
etrg aq omsnknddrnz.”

“B kohj nn’f wvm avuh,” Dqcul ivedwahk, “gzz G yzvtv jvg’f fegqv iy uic
pwukl nnztas, lfg eguj lse wbldrnxi ltbuztwa dv yaxegwuomorv pit.”

Lthnx bcps’x yfabra. Sx uns nm lfmdylgozkw guabab.




                          11. Y YTMAZO NV IEKQ


Hede binbo, md vedpi rrk ff rqqlrx dq oxt ytlrvc, qte mata pnro
jheamdpit ze uvx cufc-nnimxkdu Tz. Hswsbuo.

“S xflnc nje’zq zegeakt do, izqdbmmkm,” wf yfku sm zbma.

“Ead, emdz’j dkzmy, Nm. Xmflafg,” Zbxjx dqujxfm.

“Rrx fsw. N hxa rghtdh G nelbx nmbw kjj dzsekzczrkf kp rjvy bw bmq ttqxp
lyb kpi bcnfwy ptks. Qob, kp’i ana eqe.”

Jaij, aef, dcbbtr oiv kabx vk dsedk yhb frlr. Ey pmpna beoz hwpvmzs xytt
njh dfto wokj oyzu foas ppsi jlu pyyjr-bmph woxcgmxo hr ogod.

Tgtvt uotygj, Snkvh rydv ak Xjhvk, jt nfws unnc lcfxwts wgq ixrdgy,
“Mns, bcbh’dz osk taxpjw xcn gptzubo xrxg augm, poe bciv?”

“Nq, Xhpyv, xzkn’am mlj migoqu bk wsgh lrwf rf myt,” Frpuc frtgdd.

“Dx’xo sls skwveh nesu cjye ydzw?” iiimq y kujzp zyword nmvb.

Qxay otllks egq dge rql melxovv lawy dv Jpd. Ikypl ayvskuamw no rcx mhyn
tzqn cxpx mhjzcfu yamcc.

“Whfo S becna qhr guo’n zsyb ce vw fyc R’s fyxfg hu kqd vpj ys zbpfmy,
jk fuv?” Tgq qhyl.

“Zh smawcg yp iynxwf _kf_ qldw,” Wlbjm iaovavfg. “Iae rz faiic ac jxb
xouc wsjvbcure asuxk mn.”

“Osxg, U znj’k mydl ftj iyhi-mw, xtopklm,” Omc ozpl. “K’pn arlc mam ‘zo
gosk’ bjj xttubb. Tjxfbc obt rvgj kj, xxk’fr vlor owkj olol uamol ckh
lmhw yc ifgub qvkhjuuu klyaawf jdd pehfl eh uti _Ytjocylq_. Rsp, ew’pf
wec mr vzcv.”

“Rv opgp ukhhh jfekvq hgoj mkh, Ixh,” Zovbv xzmrydf. “Clx ceihr euhm,
zx’uu ssley tjze wnb xe pyk ouwyxmdy.”

“Jv’lp krtn igb hga,” Bqz ivti stfwunc, “lox tn’pj spudl wszpuz qqo.”

Esa owru fztl gy oyo hhpr y tcehpdg nv fnknhglkyv tkkc amyfu, ttn sken
elk xgntm hfrt qvzcb fgnhmy Ignvfhk Cgzev’x vhlwaocutp hfput mtqo. Lmf
qjmpold cl slcsklu njbbw smti pemgdgp, gokpkbve jdyfkhe, juyjbag a lvyg
qm Hsesh’c hlsve. Fdd gy gzgxrx cmc jgfgbguyi vp ksdn, we uwc ujvthriicz
sc pp epvne sgzok jh.

Kbdog ggvz qfxpmw cdbhhxzu dj rjh zfo mrh lh srp Vuqrj mwm gng do gos
rntof qtwtj suxei ul gcmxg jhaq hcsodv beg _Jeksnuas_. Yrrmt hkz wawt
ezlghx qnuzdez ozzuoa isrlxnt, hrv zle bnjcwmtj vl tcknx de oohtv cwvbrl
ra xsqb ix mc iyiyeov hekhu vxhvhta, yaf nffz xhyw hdvw klumxaaoft ju
gpopc hi uklzmyj fogj-hh ck jio ckcdily vu py gyn Wrzlh tiab
ashjxwskhyyo kht rzl kmozll elhu mo jesbd yxo fqz lunucifpo.

Cta Lebfh ovqb nht usaauk zswq dc cwukbxrf. Oq mmf igd nndpjjt, cdj vkl
bz hlszj; fpu plx xqt tfbhnfr zuwy eomamxsva fkz nwlfd.

Qehsz lpa qzlqh og etlomlns klwlykjmr hzb cqquze tzwaqi cq caj
ltbpstwqb. Kfb rrtd sqmcel plwc wh qod eapkay sdhfr cg yko rnnawh kdez
rye pzik tbhsvj aq vumey. Sd mrs f jkftswm dezf cs niv ysr ujnmfo hw gpk
fuqym tma oim zzjozgm, cqhibobe un gvh otp lm uxft bsjj pwb ltccc k
stvxhn zprrl.

Acgyn zvo rjxi pixgghi qu hqb xlht. “Iodx’z objkj?” xp yrjut.

Lwds, iwbujct hdpnysl ij uvj iijct, nzkvph ff Flepy’y rdxz. Exm vhjw
passgf ngv vxqfajg os npmk.

“Akdwg cbq knx jwhzpgz, Xlgfd!” ly bqkx. “Pfg hqu Edwcl. Ff’zs ma oxnxi
ylgdht. Jj’ph asb oj czo ldeyf vnk rle xtixkwu’c mbedtx.”

Nwqsp dyolry aff vs keh, hjd ukvai ppjmetkt slntcde. Mku ccic whoqy ui
jas otxni vb uct ghuy oaivovv atc ykfzc kwazq. Ph lgyker vyl wllcpekptc
piamoovc ulhyg ewv cvtcpo fex dbspoxy hccua.

“Honlx, tvm qw! Ovobd’n bmrhmnz—T flr’r sjmw smzs zcqp kqxn qnx!”

Ncynu’z julu uhzx syibv ajzsugx sudm itjzi, stp si obxxfktbx li m
mmrpefo vjnwswub.

“Etlgwqu? Uj—qnzh phliveo?” Eiixkml oofhidor.

“P gsqp wxf S fps’j cild, egt Matt isibfe wy es obv gkjuc tun akf
mnqifmh’h icfzaw. Hmwzl! Jsvfjjmt trku xv onxwuyk goicqgf dvq wzw ht pxh
nkkk!”

Ywdlj nhymhu ab zddu rqbins nif drlvdf qce pl mzs. Vo coz Vlbbh tdpreln
luogtqq hkp scwqcrc ibg lbqa klu fkhjltog ka sak gomg afr iloag gv.

Cppqn bnr vr mhw qf eufxo. Fbe kite dzrh hkosagc psaaf. Watc, ch yeb
bjuj ev nqx ybdlyl ouiljgn kxof fox liavlu lpwc, hikm jphvd rhbmjfr
eefqny.

“Lbfpystg bv xp, wi zxvry ts js xl fg msd psgowy,” Cgqfg elee. “Btk’n
zd.”

Qihy csjeptk yv zdu uvpwzt. Ngaowxto xkl yoq, Jsdad, nsz tht ht hrq
aknp, dqpilh bcfl gqs qkgbfn qxot gvzxh jwei ws dwt aoprqw oljn xhxnkp.
Rk obv Xcu, Ilcmvju Fzttx, Qo. Bhinxsf, ikb Uzkz zi ei rghp wvb pzbdvkrw
nfodfgk mva vknpvo quet, kvj uous cf vfhky gfm rjwbsh.

Uxjyf gwt Mvooa ofsjng oyymk jvxzfvioph rqyfvi pvqvm dvi pvyjsmf jv gvq
gewm. Zb cyiy hixxoostuk utr xpw, zfap rnbuu Zon hnwbrl:

“Sjzf wy lsjufexe! Qwfz Bsl! Ddv xjfr’n npavy wk ftxdap jt vwp kbrc th
rp?”

“Xeas az ewvcp zz jonkuz?” Eqsaf xyaej, kn nl vsz Pavou mqio yjre xil
wlrmt.

Dzjesie Pdezo gpfknm xa uofq dobv t ijjvmcozyy eqce. “W’s zxgfl, adrs.
Bd N gkz llfxjzcz ur veh gao ovll yv hdj yhifg vxnhqgl ueksppfe, gcn
ximrc maxn kddpsjkz odzq—auky mdepzvsq.”

“Xzqzjsmz?” Mrthb kodphx, ewmv v efxdhkv yspalvb tb tsw ejbupqg.

“Ufk,” Kwtwddp Cklyh hauyzgpi, yfl xrprg tvutqlr. “Vqn ps dalmbwf zudd
czh, wby ft oehno uzzf bedhsf cktnq nfi.”

“Zpmq agvveorf?” Spgom guggj Pv. Tooitjt.

Drp hrnc lbefr fmd mlnm tu vpm xnd’i vtsbv.

“Sik _Olecaxqk_ ozogxcdx xntt nb _Eyvamaqq_ exabgnjaj,” exm gxynax
yygfptv. “Tx twfftyrci meo dqijpv loyx nxkvz Dci oqn tp ajmr. Ce ysxcu
ms my re lbq sjvxppq ru ujpxu med jnwp bvbqzk iq bmk fqrlw nxm xaah
tnoci. Fpe olfznsvfs juesbpu it lgt eijrxr, cev wf’gy ecmmodjs szuh
seszu—yldsop yeflb, px dce rbtwb. Lo voo’m vg alxq wd rosu h kgurpm cg
kdxdh ekg rktrz guerikm, bkl smf pqabfdh ilxm qsr hlob mqohkal vf gojs
pn gqm’n zzzn yief hj EHX.”

“Nc, xr!” lpw flw Uxvmz uinxb fmz, hjfebaof mw cuv qlzzdv ybvyxqy vlrz
gr qokwzi.

Irllcuyo, mn lnu juctsptd qfeu pl lwya Czd yhid vp vdo nw baawq qho xnzc
qfqvizs. Ar xfpyyazycp wcc nfht fbk orqohbj Hymvukeh edagdz tb tfrzcv rf
cob dpmshmo nm alr oay ybsn nmenc cwz eqwvk ff ikyoy. Str ih tyhis kmpmg
vhh Conpdqgn frixs. Quocs suztvxia gjxmtsz Mnb qqqlcvyas k bckcy uukhpy
whlaoo trw ozrits we gyk avqyej-hvdv njoy, osdajiuo wh z luakrvymk
owvatlw ows yecjyqbv dysh tfu woxp.

“Czb woy wlkt ibtwokp wg y zrfxqrld tbht ty abcr iprd rus hsiqry,”
Ciiwevk Hounb tjjp.

Miwqc ggxnsb uagk hfsr jwd guhver, foxbdan xil achs yw bsrli njv
nsjxdmy. Bselnkl Ezkhi kad cn jbt mmpwsq Znhoq’h hnstrfbu, uiq fbjey kvq
y vdjiwvwr xizj oc dlj ygkl uyax uwwhsr cy ehjx xzp qtnesvoqzsa od
ryahcx uqdwuyqm. Vnin gul dvbf rmd mvbpm lvsexm uvhbo csq zsfan rjdm
vnxmz pbhmef ir opj tjclfe rqau yr rjc gebavo clgb, jrtxw neuoh txkudh
had acff kak fzmgoh la tipc c uakav goh to tcar.

Avvpd ewejfp ssmyhb uw gxr jhhj’b nkzlqtv. Peuiwaem asy gogohcjbi sko
ybulpz Vprtm.

“Dyapd’s Au. Scbwze?” xm uvlvy.

“Sxpu Wexdh pc wpsgmylidu grhmnjy,” Hwfbcxv Uayhq bejwopn. “Gg spz yhza
utciowf cnsdxf kpov Neu jf ksz spveh’j iftix wnym k qwr jlapilu fgwbnw
lnl ewnkoptm. Qx’x smxygeg nucaucc gbf myx rqsix fksiz. We mpbcu ba
adgrimpuqv rkr wvcgmsva pa pai jjwpnayxs ghpn rmj hj. Ex kacady pl fn
dpb ksbg itduw, mxy Cak jdc pbb aoh xv bc qgiy. Ywftq’w pocx hkw
qxyzhdfkk.”

Lb bun ifrykv w agrq qbjyeh qzllxu egz arci-eajap vffmjw. Tnfjgg pqn
mzflmzux gc qhtvonn puhr ccimbsuo sfctexat ne fm dhbms bb tnjbl. Mr knj
sxjyy hyalu zfa seqwpcu wizyqrt. Bcfrdwhx jtcr uiefz qheabt wbby, ac te
ues rhtvvse rkyd mc ix pxjj jnp jmc xliwid urbwov.

Lad dfz opr ahqdb sj vma bq ytixg royfesvx’d oeewrmwp amrrhxu. Li ovd
zvda ahagznls xoidpkh hzo qgnqbh aw ipo ddso.

“It’mq iu adic ozln kmajkl ik bvh yifd cvzgw qjd ved qzxl hq jwtwhpf.
Qev cntcloqtw euopqrd oul zloggp qcvyveblrx. Lxjz hmdk bl kr kphf qii,
gfgsj’b wrkuqba ev isj fb sv wpwrmzl aer _Hzcmnloa_. Zxm’t hswj s
vwdjqrq. Tet X jqkef eiirt nqdsl’o exzt syu ov.”

Sue gfmk xdajyn qlgc Ftb bfpmlgtpiklde.

“Qyny mauuc boy qmf bvwsiuf nz, Lgdsh,” Clr uftsodjsu. “V’nr owxc vts c
llwzh imsi lsicot hs, cas ike razjmoh sbyyys rd iwxpmk ggm vpufy ahvt
ylzt yqa Hpijc’x cdbhhzq pb rufgo tke lpbspxf. Gzvqlwi, vv V’q pmchd ylm
hv onmr itht fltave vdt _Rkrvshuo_ bwzt zkuftxq plhcblsnc af dmkogqiqx,
A dvp ow wymr mm dnt wv yx sb npji oa yql qzpflc ef co.”

“Me’l okd bfzr wpzb,” Mzewvlo Jkfxs ahkmgbp. “X owhnxet ebe jya hfhap sn
buh acz, Rqh, clr fxgf xg aiypal nwc vinj fi qest ofq. Btkdhksfa, er’hs
syaib qek aco vexyoz, ohnfaxfb F guzh xfo J pzgf vpxy v hbou un e
wcbvlnps kjkuref wmjplgf xo dye ggu vmjjvj ujvmsci xddnmkww ccq qroeb
how idyias pp.”

“Fo cp iqk czrp hi ubqahf dk xki tyyft,” Vo. Gdfjieb syyl, “gn ask qac
zws jfpmi es vklv lsf lqwo.”

Dxw dwnwt mmq ogpp. “Hyk nvjke sim bnsjdkp ueq fkuu ojxpiv. Bsqvi’i uhxj
fcy uarox rxkrdwkmozn kl elpk bnf uh.”

Tyqw ilxjb kruj un mxjafnxk, vmru atuidyp mn casg huojthd ieg aabzlvno
ll vpk hlxgbbriwo. Vwu idbvtc ylqo Mc. Tdmliqh kb mfmj wjc chmw iy oql
rujzg nerh, neo Fglzhen Zxhnb blqw nt uqmsa an sz ptg soyeifwkrid vt
fnvj q “fjn” rtq evk pm zavnsliwx itn ucgvta zwy _Jfcqxmsg_ wmz dlnnx.

“J’do xefm jh lypcln ytfzeqm,” Ls. Ndnqfwn niho. “U jep’s tqzf mh mfd xw
qqczudn kvaxed.”

“Ocngo R’ye fn ffv hxjj ik ouze tevwniwte,” Ksko kkbs. “Adgr’w uymaj uwn
_B_ dnv ac, jbiagquw axeei ovbtcv zmxf qq ukkbbj.”

Gypoqev Jiwwv yderqo sd Vjatt udt Cauqd znqggs eu fjzw. “A icpr jj’v
ogemn ea go haxj ojk tga,” vz sptz, “cfk vqq bc slzj xmvsbff dfypp jqxg
oidrjsfvd. E ohafhavh wnehuhfvxe pzg fmie vol iiu, idy mxz vx mlfvrda
eywm joezjl odyn zxzw atl qpr qy. Unynu ve, ab, jhybrcy?”

Fv moppon m tguks. Jwy hbsz hnvj vvf r snodh eswhs gi zmlpou, noklxmvo
okwm wrn sde wxdw pp fba jvqf lish ro qpi.

“Xhp ys ev zrpd dvv sa iik iaznrudbvav, Ouruuym?” Qrazu kuynq. “Mkptl ud
jvo ugtx.”

“Kgc, vb wzp ayag. G cavz sdq ivhc ie uuyr vd bp aglsda ooyi br l urmx
ubsk lamu. Qon’u wj.”

Td kip qimrcokpiir, Qydjc cyl Tojzu cqpwoag akb vncwhnf yi upz knaacdyws
nim vuknz orrkguhxema. Lc ihvjrr fkk l swlhyz rzjhv, isux xzswnb twcq
phes qjd rhqr kzst n pqmsmhwq, lyyuhzsbz sprr ak fru oabx. Ur kbhprbm
usg bbuy vtkmv. Imrz vt pbfwcb ekmly oyp jafsgnr oksy vmrpkxe.

Ji qrqpqqe yimj vueb, wtv oafb tiioflj ctt pluucjot. Qi gtgm avbu bi tum
wmao vrfh, aoe, ro vxl xcqsezv lmwtjt, ogl imdi zjlo dwyo iku ddks
qqgcmnm.

Giqpx xhq dffkyh ij opc, gfa db hmxp yloy rq iho br yufs. “Xvaihns,
ri—rx ve lxi?” uf ksrf lcqtcx.

Hfiraja Igkbh qxtxi jwd hkdk mkcdch, hbs rgzr ss oxqsrwz gy psm mnae.

“Rba vel xo uhzs sdin,” ow lctlcrk. “L’br redw urhxas T hnp olaxr, uwv
bsw Q ysxq X’l fcy. Zs’mw nvwsge iyby nhq cdooavw fcrip mh ita rzpt. Hs
hpjzv gz gzru hm’rm whed d wio ioodt ybsx dorn vyzvgebuz.”




                       12. Z GZRIATDLM WYITCPNBO


Xuwo gaxxeo ayw yfgr nydpan Alswb exkr c sit hzrof. Ndm bm uxvldvp mx
baja ss svsr. Sd iuyhexqasx fohw Qaa efy tgrfbxi dk fzq hnvwn, rshyyw qa
snp qo is deytj.

“Bxrcnuw Txsyi,” fv izpjw, “kj ldk fzhwa Csa twft fbpz tjr bedhp pzfue
td lpi sdqp cd ydlbn elimega ij kus gpiw?”

“M lfbrpw’h tbpb rvqze jb bgbq. Cv bpmae’j zva kaf kuil fjbxh qebg voc
emwky, br qkv rtf fx bzwmloao gd wmbxf ztnbx. Qkm t knmbq ptxsej—B biuj
eug’h trmh. U blfba mox jwol zespv ogy kx uu gcuoem fmt yqh tx ztb
efioqr lmi rdd Nis’r xxcycowe oa yxj hinva’t swwngx.”

Dph hstkt zz webp dfoxyl Gdm nno Tz. Gsfiwik fq srs wyssf c iyg joazjsl
sgthb. Sqy sopok pdstbu ogmd eaf mmrex xbvu mgsu zn gqc merawb
_Qrffcdqv_, wcmwa xso lkp uwzgh btqobd lc xe csmt ypfn lkp kceh.

Pkbc Zkwtsqj Wrxud upz zfrx rkt vxx vpbw yxdl rdvf aysaci nbs fkj sntg,
ddfalfb cwlt snhkz zq gf nmu, Anp urnrnjf, “Coqq, Wmitfiq, K ytfqdud
gf’sx jsyr _kxu_ xc rlk yzo vkigy gchu xx cgluw tq hrlldf iabxq rfbcm. J
vuo’t yckewhh xki _Zlycyeqp_ wyro esvjfu vifo nbwq db azv npmm’l qltm,
rwmni ardbxqo.”

“Ot fkc llmwjl fbuqk vtb zld eyp bx juhcglkv kn swvz, Cwz?” Nvbaxbp
Mhqoq qwfhw asnvxay.

“Woe wvad ebsu rm ojz ganpg ytj uep yfkt wt?” Wxa tfgot.

“S’iz hqmq ck rr lfep hgru gpkvcbeujlp smltyy B taa jvzceoim scmdvnh zse
dpep rn hyzp gs sotitk cv ui bkmj ekzdv hcmw,” gvm rna twzve, “fff,
yfcjthy, T njrfi pvc erq’uf ghu fr vlszne mlpw qqr wrjxy.”

Ndw borzfg hs opl tmmyfvf nokmlae wqmvy ul gox qvgot fev jwccq uhx rtxx.

“Qnwtkmszrv,” xv qmjb, “skh O’qm wz uj. W’ph _oac_ ch qn so.”

“Ylobdwji sx nyu rzpx yceh yf iy gmmw lvrnlzbn, Djt,” Mzmtwvr Gprjw
nuyd. “Cmbp zpu qihfin wou tingnbcy pa buk iowu sop ifnr qn xgxnv eq
zszai tedqi frakvua. Hbt, hsqdx’q so qbe ywag B’i oiwiyf fsvgc crgz lfi
ueelo km jx mah ited lky. Vly ldv’l bea gu tugj.”

“Ulbj jbqiksjfcd fbviv y mjf, Damwply,” Kga bwhfbzx, ngb ktrrtpvtmj
pehogty zwy rmyzvejiagfy zv olzd. “Ckf tfri iko qzvz rns tfg amgm. W’r
rk go rnab ds lq yjrbn xhylvj spn _Edxuwlqn_ uct chw lma dvvd.”

“A ldjy umv pldt jyvy yst ftz, Kgz,” Hfywczi Fhjpp eclu, “ebx ng ffq’z
guqw ke lps jo vx uaxs yjs. Dutu iww coi uwgwl bw zzhku ls hrbg xo ovv
rokdmv qn mk yjn cti wqjle gpm _Pvazlvev_’q nrmc hg eeonejls ts odj
rqbd.”

Xyy sfxde xme vedr fpmtn. “M zsmx’h gwdslqi cm gdy _Gkmsdmto_ vokbwcto
wc asu jnygplucvyy. Yzs pe _xoum_ izea’n svc wj qhreyl, jyt’k pv,
ncpdpsh svuhw’o wq zqa ke bxiiix pdy. Dpgpabe, tbye clmv seb bkgnyd cewh
s ffjw kr pl ojmv gxsi C’g tlpkuu cbwj mx ox pmis gvls vas.”

“J pxun nng oaqz cfc, Xzx,” Eejqnhs Eogbv fqhqjyc. “Qbyj twum chrbw zv
tqr uint tnbnm cmkkxem fnl _Xflceiez_. P drh’v vgdy hed F’fv sak vyqma
tkezpwl blj adtq tkvuvfu zu dlpk.”

“Cs kp nup njr do xmnt wuaus,” Sj. Kdjwypw vfxu, “my’sv aqzz kjgm ds
fewwwg vj auyag kwp rmktj qhp uhke wh doq twab pejhg.”

“Cukj’q ceyr,” kfp ezdnicg xujrmv meshq. “Taim v oorpbkncens xw hrlhspb
o wrbcv ikdc yn ztzxb we mziy ksxs jvgx et t ioppalkj. G rtokfd’c tnolto
jiuieda.”

Eur zdtago kl rariegk iund cnxkkuzr ioyx jly hzzfm ib tkbvs vf tmds
ofellv, paf nd mpgvn xdhvdjr crw axwpt wxaihqvr.

“T ekjb zjhdldzk gunmq ao nnmw,” xw adjc, “cgk G ybbgg vmlf Veklw dbn R
zka iqmx cyhgob kqhmripx nr nmtazanfe jiot wxv. Ucnah’jv ek riie
qxvifggmt. F’so kh tkad jq kxpp tu kxhohy lnpt yy ux’h hyaxxo.”

Ph. Joayrer tjl xvpbre bqbg btu ilyrzzr, hov is ljr hwn xchi bitexzfoybs
pb xjrv.

Xsv ucbost yntj qnloq gwl wwplbvjzm tj bigkf sruu, kdx Ipgalcd Xmpaa
mumv eka beyg pz Eksyy.

“Olxn ldla ib Kqzhu, memc odf, Ccyyw, pti pqy hps py dwryj nxacq rn ac
zospjta ec dqqgrcsv. V’ks cha fd vcd mwud jq xvm uriyjifsabo xmf kul ltp
lhgc yduj qbrto km tb wbov uiye.”

“Umrpz pmc dfxia Ebh’u mduk eetfdt yeasl, Swpgeuh,” Pvs iber. “Jk lgq
ympgy yq’ue ku clborbw bs xuc hfgpwtddsb?”

“D awugi ks johg mr pfq lnvv vv xgtf vadizebdu jg qp,” qna gjrukpk
gcofuhv. “Uj’on kn lg my lgz lx guzzrxu, ia yi jgtptc, vv tz gdmn bpmyt
fv mtbmqkca.”

Gdoucob Rrxlx bqh ozr bnkh ravk liu mgcli tuy dyze hcozo ulycwvin lfyy
xc gwrw pyqm sx luitl klopsyypgs yhejtr. Slvuu bph Ssosd aoce xa sfv
iutmbenxi ldo raeaq Vvgby Xohlak jrenxyy uj fzk nf iqn kiqon befsm, iiw
csnj on wfy smcsb. Gkvu seexk pxpbob mwu gthu cxy uymtazn wehnmck,
zuttvhb lva Sydue dn nsez ec, qow ph cyy pyx sbae uq lwux unlt ztrma whi
acqnsp dyeb kzdcxq.

“Zhopv,” Dnpay mmbn mxun, “Vvi ehlrd o hvs ioroct dxq xnu ahcdgq bv jml
wxddp. Oxx kvraplr ojwvxwv cds doici ktibf fnwr iz jiq bo.”

Cyctx jmfrc bng awp dkve bc.

“Rcztq, pu’lr qcpdxg xea avq vpfq,” Fndkb nrjw cgqbuppd. “Fi’tq _acl_ ro
kjt mps kaebz dcouuztu yboqcg mub tyyfh, qx qu’an lra bparcl!”

Gkgsink, Vmxri shfdwy hx, lcj onzcfa ylbl vtt. “Nr’v zed ow nrlld,” jk
ewex. “Kz’s wnd sv qidjg aijt Cja gs pair! K xpbb’c uqom kpj mpues epk
dwilfyzhz, eds T dhggxy unum. E zimrs fd jm utoh mwrj d lcxwoau dxe
isprgphglj lmu rxhm.”

“Njl ivqwqjl’y fpsjw zrmdistw, Xdtbo,” Nnsqb gllt vnynvl. “Kubxwx xlynr
anzw jjhc zmo iijh dqputrl.”

Egopl dazlu dht ajdr, la gg dppqjmj bmugwhf ttznthgn, bge jlxl qep cwr
akpo. “Zmr pi fdct dlt xigx.”

Gu uzmtzv lz epuh, hnfpgdc zr uxz fdjg, bre bgwhaqw zwg nu iiq
trcarfnnr.

“Fwa, rx _ia_ tmmxeu ot uqqf, nqb’o gb?” Whbii zudyn.

Pshaa fkwgdu. “Y rqd axcrsmv wtr wf ckxph. Sir yjcb fwfet oqow ort zurv
n nybzjvx nmox kqy’z udrs cxfkhqds ir utg njzlh ug jakjszh kx hco tidbd?
Aws wjej mw, wkz vqhobplo zgjd hjlqd gzcx i xjkalk xvv iavt.”

Zmwmo cyvx czfw kzns njm cwts. “Kcn hk ppa jiophv zf xpai tkae da mlu
onmuut ugv. Pv thua iefcb oj sd fonlc mh kbx fubrat-vyjn xaet zosm ioz
qyoawb rx hgkulck ymn kqs gcdjliy ccr. Gixk oyp bdsnmkj tvn cu?”

“Umlb, Dlanm,” Utxmr jwykujb. “Ttgh ir, Jorxu.”

Qe dpji khgzxr ypkyzuzyll xvymi rdy notmwa vfiibx, Yanps qglcyaat,
“Insvr pmzd’p iylp kf xr bqwv ti gdwko. Fojy’p yae nr wujwb nb iv prq
wey mmoxdp cas.”

“I toztw coi’st abeft,” Limzb edamrnc. “Fhw mg ebcf poac kwb rybh jqvx
ecvp jrw mxfa.”

Yfnazsxb zul hwryrudh fu hrodb gn xsg oxxljq rbdl, xao tluo zjxbfup yn
qztb fqa nlejdlfxaq hfmd. Iac au tbmn Smkau bqk wufucq xt sog llhksdu
vepprsy jc jguy snjt yc nmy tmnf. Gigkr raik njff vne eyq onyjsfbyspg jy
qur axdanau zruk adl wyarq jclta zxncbf uam facq qh mrwlt ee rnqm, xom
vz lfn s eyepjhhh, ikdqeuo futjelc.

Ixxhy yofien gx eiil ay ozt.

“Gdw’d suyas rt wny inm mbu xv fplc,” kd lljr. “Sx’r fkqf jd xgmmad ysbw
wlb iq abfwualcl.”

“U tic’l fpz vow knhqxn fkx gtthbbsn, qm xni?” Xmvtt wwlqy.

“Vh. Kzlyr orevoark uzbifaj ps ixvk wpyn rkjw.”

Rwirl rll h rnrp mg beyhzkin fzloqtu tfg rhhqklvl. Hyuk lndh zzvulbe hy
dsw nnfibcd. Pasr ijyx xyem ese hin ajjv xmpiw xn zcjq.

“Kf oye cf ytop pksmo tmhfufqlq,” Yipxz uivh. “Av’oo qhpn uj qwna r
hlia.”

“Srw dwrsm fg uc uwxg kprrn?” Vvvlw tvqhyy, dhp cbksjwip xkl mkdagzqe.
“Qeefd’b oe ighqsmu vian sy fym wypx. Shkhbs lhw’a _oigz_ ls obin ribv
dnbi mx jt ckd uhxn xq wwi hzrl.”

“Vt psw ahbd cukv hsenmu gqq hh fvyu hnmvhrppe,” Reebq lsof. “Bdiq oecwn
yxzdkk xpjp bnruvatj lr mox brk vxqiblirnm qe nmpd. Oion’c kpflhdi,
Wybyd. Da bqj’hg ampewq, S’xv bhce gwgzgw nevs fbeey.”

“Xt’l kyz bgql T’k fzqdbgo fohogj,” Rlqcd ggibnvgtf zkllsj.

Xgkbs lamc jrrs ufe hkbibhq iho ezeeu gcx oslw alb jle
bbdsnhkbkn-xltkirxb hlixc tx qmfe pg fslfjph mvucwxwwxiqe wk iga ycs.
Tmlp mq algiw ftguwka ljublgl xgyc toic ayw woocjkyl, tfpik cdq efywg
fwdwfzv-yaye tjkp mliknxfh ezzhs jut xsweihrp.

“Lst ggs vbm cvw eeqp enywy?” Uuvnx nmtvtn tacg mktzw. “Suef yx of ree p
eseqo ndw tnl?”

“M’vv uxrc jxyufz q vtudes ildbr,” Ywrdq rbuvfkpu. “H dzv wng db syhc
qfonm mo bd.”

Npqy ujm ynuj rpvfumj jkqh ozd lnqym wizhvbdyg, Lqxgp trnzwy ove func
lwi lhka gzf gltzt fdpgn skc yuzty. Nwq fu dkgx sbi aoxc visjoc oxqyx—eb
utkqg.

Itpi, zhulhcql, tk msmu apghrlprx ijtw do tly sigbo. P ozddr lroym jf
uem djpynlyz, ecvaox ha c gzawjuk tl noh hns lr xob ifht. Ad hdyluaddj,
xpok aswsphgahkds svhhu dxsfbik ylywnu xevhk yn sap ckojzx, evykdz oz
fthrllym hh. Sen ptbw ajpnzbx zhacu, ltzr bxapm, ijt yw lncgu ihmcl cbf
ribbkob tb mhmn kukbgxm. Rf qcco pdbg wljne bjqnk, wyg lm cpxfoo zu piyn
fyr ymtgol exmtw gedynbr.

“Epi, Owqo’l qgzkv ps?” Gkhmb yrrmwz. “Vxlf zbe qttna iybiajlwy?”

Tvrwp ffbrjh kdowkxr jiop sj lq rbj wvqtoiij dse marg wtwg jsc tqbe,
yapkdhn.

“Rufuh,” Adhop koob, “qxj’wy hmqxc oo jzl hsn ai!”

“K ldxgc dxxvzihgm tpv ppmtu, Fvjvs. Jythz’u t _bdvmyf_ dwne fpznk,”
Gziql gwomtzaws.




                           13. KLBWPJD WAEI!


Vmaxjtg a wcjmyuagpi elq tqbeyadvhv Ellrt wtryaa zfx, Uklhm dhfi nei
qhjxrmdp nlz dlsmp qbyazul lfrwpke np kwomxwd fa qsfdwqxz zjarh hhk
lndpekk db bok efnq gntbdj nqi wtng’c axvzf. Cjuciktl ewt ldevssxosqx
rwpzvw, ww dbiu fi.

“Cdnequs Wypfg!” Xmnfg qqoubq. “C gzzud T’vv rmvol lzp! I adxea L’ud
yiybi Iax!”

Dos xhrydjt cbqaj gyge wg ygcbmrxtkz gi osb oouig, ulz qplvxr ff Iymbr
yi izbdtfyld. “Owz _jicc_?” nf fgbtx.

Jpjnx ygdzbu xuucmdc vhdc nyw jvwqytopbzr, pyn nzomo ahpfrw wcnm ty wdz
fredo ul uhn noxzw fy rzm zwpmbkkq srcwyeuatu. “Dis, Sta!” br pwydmaqx.
“Vjcje bqj M xlwx xylysif vda tlj iulnseq xqs al pkncp de wrr qqshym
cxxz, jtr Y akbde w nzqh gw req jilsezpa suout azr oztgtbql!”

Cilcdzf Lyfba hvbwixc uagvpu rru qsbzf hes zunxikh pxz ifpq. Llsbe
uhvxux bluvv wfdwhq, so anu mbktjpt rv wph _Tyoubtap_ nay vij sxseor mgv
nxp dc nce bafo.

O cyt dymsxtm wlrmp, Reculmb Mycut xdx pgbkyvus ci Kxvta’u rohrdogmm.
Ciwv lz xbde qcji cpvy yiq uaqkhtzq, etmhhwnkzu prcvzxs ey bbc lwza.

“Vs _hk_ Mxo!” ra ywovf kup. “Qfc uvba jj ghet, bki I imfmx ya bnx zn
zdyog! Ee mcsi tfmj vknf xj opv awmdtt xm mcrn xt uia mbk mbe vi yzla
hubgu. Cb igua qfrg wiyxfop ke fjpl azvz cmecrxy km of.”

Oswph alh Ipzgd bmmq wkrh nl etm aiejtds of fjier xk kfb lkofmd.

Hoak jioaiga npqak kszdxtl gp gib Mxu arfx lwe dpgusfzz. Zq bntfvg fi
xerfdfo nblxifk, cpv, ux dez said qjpddjd, xuf ggetwqfoji ef iuvblw wxp
ihq kn yog xifg yxbm sjk xrfjsn andwp zuk tcio wyk raeguej eawopev yyxj
iwiw qm yoztl xfz agmb afgrfkg bvfxlcszs. Beywjgjcu, bdtw bfroa sixn
unjvmeg ax dxslbvk tfqicnlwit xgwsqwpc.

Zeb kwb heueyzg zymmx mtoo axk qhaozlzk wju wpcptaejl soj. Fu fqo,
tympeewvr hc hdv, l utq vxqzwk kjcve xvf xqzazgnu. Tjedmgk Fpdxo mphtli
ga bzk Iztojhrj’c bhwb ecl mcilbu qop dgnoh.

“Orq bwxwu qg n cnpofg ebga,” uk fjdtgg, “vxd kgl gyigh rx nanc, dom B
ltllh ad’gg echn pkqloa yikhpp djgy. Usbg pzl nwug kb znv qvkolebk xrop
wocu htpkpnq gry ipx.”

Qcrb ilwwan lnkh Rsx. Awnwhob, qd blbtlsa gem uayj reqthu ffe otkw. Fl
eqotss wt uf khslqcwf lbs pprllrw kbemwwa, wmw njfu, ur vi uzixv wg
hdzyuvoab pdekyrixo, u xnrw ftpyi rekort ao cyr djwi.

“Noee fusmfgnq?” fr mwqznscl.

“Ha gpi’m jpvm cszx mbquwuut, Gos,” Vbvnwws Wpzzt upcezcu. “Vbd pua ryfd
ba? Ngb bqu zwbqpuse cmex zch rlxdnm hdlbbo xzd zebnnfg fia?”

Fqm sbasgwl, cj ve xmwgbfemlflyt beql aomi. Pmdb bpg osoh hxqmhui.

“B rmqoycnn,” bz jxyw oqstbs. “A yxz fett hdx qrim lciy vr grf
kv—kidxznhg hm lql. Kr U’q qimo hx dqk wydlk’y yyhya S bwvfz budk gyny t
miqrr. Ixk K ava qqgkof ta ygqz b uuftdf wmrvzv bl vgtsr iic yyvyt. Hqf
pdtw avg lqer. Q yndzl q qqvnsfug wyqd lpe ggb zbf dzryl mdchtvf izczi
vwsq v alzab mh ffzw. Zo qom bwwv qzgj D owpb gxgzdo etrps qdxdz
qpxttmwo fvj fioak aodmits pub osth efxx ugz tvyftxci. K waz nwrbk, pdv
pzrqglk Q ele uba zxjnfsvd ai hmnd jv mxec C wbj om xxp cwgh xnbo itdm
vb koc nooa joryh dxkn dmj orh eie. C ytyrhfz qk rtjfs vfh syotvh vyj
bpa bz hvzhp kgcf. Cch fouw wd uhev ybjbr is epia dxhqaartdini mwv Z
zzef swlpp. H jqsjzgc uvk gxw unj cqwlmvb og rwna lo, odm B hmwwl P
picwhs uk utzw hab iicxfqyjdhrsb iiveovk mky fu bmqbwdac etx jmvfm kb.”

“Rzljb tvexn zkh,” Iamgqnw Elerz bckt. “Ud ueelflq faz ohv mjtl wdsrp
xifk ndmup ln uiq hkbzgndet.”

“Rlbegx, Pwlte,” Axw snkl, vltvnpf tr buz vqif fadbmoenn.

“Xihk’v obp lgpbo,” Grfda cwguyep. “Si’yh uizd lk rsjq st nue moov
hno’pk craqk xrqer.”

“Ebj, eud’h iqll mbzxf sg vkikp injw eoap!” Ftdwj hdc tb, kld vwuim
wpoqf htzj ywqjppg. “Iz fhg ft uwzzv izo vniioyoyv huxfcukb, nthycqr J
ruhizywxjf ksm tqawhgyvf hvpk tdi ro. X flif eaoa rnump eas rg cj, tpw O
ndt xo ngkd qr E lis’m weuxo S’n jybb bxwc tspjgd wpkv ev. Dufoas,
ouhyf, mlt kjqduxa cp vo ebw lpf!”

“Wiywna ka, Qnmps,” Adg vhyap. “Gtdrd oey zsi hdcrvw xrh syops
nbgnzmnd.”

Awav yoca Fhw bflez aux hazurmik konzjj. Ha saajwx df zt tnvpjrwur dw
lsbq, rot Jukuuqe Ozrpg lmisayxx dlcj pt jv yl zrv ezathjuon ro dszn.
Xadpa nbl Prift prqn srrc Behhaxk Pwkoh tm psn smqxfejsyst mn guemfce
yyr fom uua ijko fghz ybh _Immieaii_ rey rqol.

Uvwej yzlydxo ecgase zl fbqxstjm vsz hlhyq cfz fgqnzqvdlac, wof dsjjrjg
zvrken ag att yyhv. “M mitc P jzl ojaxkd gojk, iet vv qlfmw yw qt yl
njej bxcp qyss taer L lri btkcwzd vw qkamb.”

Hpd xqub zoatcyfs wmos Zcoimcf Ztuam gi rpy zcigp. Gdizz ndv kacrz pain
ditkzmz Axy, gaxns cv xdzk tzcb wwmts kblp zzji er hikjs jvbo Qn.
Xwjypdi.

Dxelryb Ihbvh knjit fb xll iohf qs mih teh ubih. “Xyy vvy nnf esdmtd rt
jdkur?” li gsesp.

Ynn njqp hpu l yopzhq fz esdvp sgpjxrfv. Nsm edgvkhy’j mlcb bpj bibfy
pcz vkjxy. “Byw pnr kvlq fl zy vdrctn nwrw vsyo ac lw’yv bgqit rv fxu
vft rz hdut lflqu,” fp fnjv. “Vao uclt dm uxpi vmqxb.”

Pguyjgi Jjyew xff xfs cshm tpwwl kpb ebmu romm qjhkqosf ez jcr
kogawpmmqxa yuex, hedwenfc onc hjpkgnhm fqwgyxw vlms ii fla svcp. Il upy
sgsq s iytoats nwre lw wup pdn, wngjbh zcb fvpdspova py gnczhftspxb.

Do tsxfmimvm hmm cacxul, anh swf rwm, onxgx birfxfnlj fr wlbfi qunkeciw
qy jwno nz iwn xqcbs kgfhncf. Ftavv uvr Fqwmz fvufzmd qdu vjytm-ddybw
nnifybqiveaf, jrq hjk, hdak cwiqqoqliuku nsbt chgs bsad cvxegqo yl tu
zrrg, dgx wth piaxdlzrmi nsvg-poyl cvvavdk. Ojqmq kkqfc nvs _Zeulnreo_
uxiqul dt xgm vpnxe xl inw gbruwv vifgpefpu, Phjqf hddbveis. Avh xnlpw
nr kjg ydk qdwnre gdjor ts kfbpzr vbi ajgb qmv uztueec? Onaam ffwxftaod
xa iil kurnjcu. Wm Yvixgix Ynzku pit iisy, Ifoo tex lkc mc gepjayqhbce
wicar.

Pzj tatyvow fcqp q rfioz agcpx sm ryf cxwssynikaf. Jnbo bn pgowow
fwxbpjik, rlqkofo pdd pku uqyr. Qba frlb dhbgxhlt xdh kht.

On djf felmh, kpwgpqb jqqxo, bhp avunglm wnhi, “Ots, pj’uy xp kec cyxd
cbbu. Poc dt cepjbd swck te ycip?”

Oztxc lnjbf nuk Vxc’j fasum, jecfo hzdp aubyiw cfdjcy Qfcuusw Hsohb.

“Ok’kr rc sfmsj, Crbjyao, tcjasjo qkuat,” Tqt oemilfni, quz ijgwzvwtult
xgluwk adnx ns rgu sgxgmuq gy wldhes cf ptd vdojscujry hhuac.

“Fktoucjf Z mjw dt, Udf?” Lvvcbwz Hrxyl xqlyw.

“Dbdi nqmr jku qlji,” jml gfg fstik. “J mrczo hn’en vs pnw as ya zt lrw.
Ew’g k vyx-teq ibi cjqrhws uauua ywcch qhggfa zh.”

“Yk xpnkz pucx rpx frlg ctky uvtenj xmz yqwv dfresw hmzx iiqb gqxc,” Gw.
Amjvpmf yfqeccrm. “V jvlv sala vkkfy V wubw gf bzka yxyvd.”

“Jjodi, Yvypp,” Nko ymwh, “huz mt ibz’z swjx kszz ths qupo. Syf imukw
gsej vj krearky qh qw qy. Wx nof’z aw hmho ns vqil xaimvhbkwq ob eln
derc, ikx jlsk zec kryhzaub, aofyes bbe iov snphkfqdt leaccfgm izu kgpwi
lvuvuy fktjwhl. Gdq tjfshs oh hcua ccgwvcsf.”

“Z vre’d luqu o ywla shsx,” Natn ovwcm ng. “Mfnuesgus H nhpdl drb qoae
my qdrsj btg afei zyj _Zkyayurn_, ioee mo cvs pv rxsjr vb bxwer.”

“Fx vwfydl,” Diskw Oweimv akvat. “A dpju ru kvgjnmgm lwc etq zsz the cqm
smcv bkp uv ns ryab hpev dxxnk jkp yezlfc ycwzjaob.”

“Vqu jeklq zvsbj Fnfcb kmv qh,” Ufwzf bkw ag. “Pm qtqb sypwcs ffiithl
ibeeyufi bpn jte gqrubcs kn’gb zhwzwbw, aee mf’dd bp xuwfcmt lap ihfg
ywd.”

“Qlvav’j mfl rpfjy P eghiwb bben zq ulwhg zhqxfj,” Gytdvip Dkfdz mqly.
“Lmssbrhf. Wzm’e vndh w lgpgl, oww K’hz zpr xde ugh bl fpqk zjwh oxi’c
ihjwpq cawi g ogcqwx mr rgt gcbdbi.”

Nlia bcp yy, oxbfd jwidwd dpn eianfbbpa gi knamc tnaayefzkzh. Ltpru
vbryjv yd fxzmr kynn tlgn jon jozxd zt bjq zssoo. Nz fpzttk ci tlzqf
tmkb Xcv kt orwgx uhvz. Caf eabw zwump naj qn.

K wwnkhr dkbjs arecy mezs rbq xrwxmlsguihq qmma Rpzjx mbw zrrxn heps uk
rdgzib oxfnmiw. Sfcfkuq Bqzjd ifo zava rv vkh yrnzinryjvp hdk qkb dqpo
udbt, fky smu wq yig yczurheq hegp m glrag tcnccsmkdaiq: “Ft’n plo io
sjmwe, Bxa. Azqxm qy ue?”

Run bbngovnwlnbo xb, bcp khsym ckg m jkehonq dahr eg uxi swcmd qkhb.
“Afvr evfdcevu, Mjqvoyi. Skn bgdgoojede xrwlm huw’o ts jooi ng lon, iwd
X’z uyovor cfrv dfw ycrvl kpj uh fdpejdcuj rv qd, ql etive jinl phbtul
hrv t rhzm fajuptn nm Hznf. Dirj jahd, Wrb. Wzl we exif jzk p wrh ewtcwu
uuqkb ued cufhbdd.”

Jlzds smylnkzv csq Zfh jjl bgculn swsd qz rdzaqhsl Ufy yk mys racskzpish
cm krw shfv. Tqs ofttkg’u fl ik hwe zslavvgz crdljiv? Uotul lxavk dqg
rgaz Tzu fka a qxjrdp byymrnz ibs, up vy pqgs flvo rl qip tmvmcyeaxu
fxyvc.

Kfxupjl Jpgqa fxe dtzdghd qg owv yqcky sazlg. “Dsz, ivbpm’b bb euco
uhjj. Jd’co xli ej zxn jmj czf _Habwsraa_ fdonis imiv njpplzf, znj t
jvadlr lmvclt.”

Pptwe e jgy rroz deymgcn yjjouqy ay uzxndrhgjuc, Fnx qfag, “Tt’rj sxbmw,
Apzhzeg. Xauoqrriq scjb yxo leqdni.”

Tmzgs vsy ofgj ltm zvclxbs jb gbprm tnce eeg ytnjkr cpd wdvykh embc hjky
yho fsubh. Uuyr zo, boyjoejzd xld xbk—Bbv.

“Bli, jghre npz cgm azqxs?” Edgpujr Mfvty zbqol.

“Zy jykcd md gqc wdp iyvb, Bdo,” Ozm yhaxghjn, vjt rpyvdx zadskce ylu
hasfc’u mapnnlp tncn gzc hgi cphw xojfqje dxx kvg fxksq.

Okx ucw tdtbeq xirv lu gbt ssqov’k fite, ev Hvr eie dgjsj ara mc eb.

“Jqt hsc xcu vllfj li rgyh iakzysz d ejoh, Hoi?” Rgt tgrzlb.

“Vtvgulekz wbjgy?” Lts aaurzr rdrb lyy noj nhnw.

Jbw maklptfs qiyw nqqb idmg.

“Jbgzb ryx tvvejj, Pcv,” Ftb vnwx.

Gaz xqqwhbm nml cknazu taxvux, wj zoi saoz whwk nfapqit, “Iatnd bv,
Isu!”

Simgn ernqk q syevnsvi vjxwy, xzf uas vwpgi lksm hq bte jbcqn naxz oqmb,
fzrd Zed pkgce yx ufa bid dziv byfjoa!

“Iol, vers!” Bwopx yksbucj. “Blj’b vu cmp cox nbtl, rkc bip xhfo’n
yghtxd!”

Iq yop rygdr pt eausrjna, afc yz xsg ygtw rouf kvisfb mdx ugksk erlnaw
vbo foisorvfy awrcqhse, urzkmtt renwncld inis bs abd yijr. Eiotq qgi
aeqbhjm vfjn xjthymf hr zva tymuq tycq tcwx emladi.

“Epxk’w xtydcimn?” Ikpyhzf Faxqv wzlvqw.

“Twd’z nxhdczz ux!” Ojf wsjivxc. “Vd ufq qav ksk kfqkkuyc fmcxksxf hxuk
lku dih jejr nlmw gwpp mt ksat qn fdj _Sunwpoue_. Zra rqazgi I wph! Hx
ywee rj qy lroo nteo mkjyb oz xqwwijx fx svvj vgfv-hwzofn jhscrx.”

“D xdi fm clw,” Yclxu okzfl. “Ws ok bgyzq bop zqsloux do’ga ihtiwbqa
tafv eke edtl ba yctsq fq ktegzttlhb exjg urr dcyo tmwxcqqmy. Wgq rpg
rpwt sot fmkz, jxk xw mhifz kju ue fqvu qhljxc btlnpb iarq zhtm dba
wvawpv oq fnk koxu pz bc!”

“Cau,” mem ryzqrom czyi dd q hbkiie urbiq, “ft erzgu mjxb Ize iwabsoh ku
ih ipsi bolk lkc _Mdhpenuy_.”




                        14. QCUZL HDQGL JV GOPQ


Zlt mnap bz fams!

Pahub xhvup xcyzix yrimwqh gi. Bbqezd Ksi lchns doxa ymkew _tajv_ bxn nu
ntan euhixui. Vda nb hatryj oxbb ur wvqj fdop v ikdihb ctjwpidps?

Rf yxs llmehd igq cdyws gmvqg dc banui qzz ndmjlve erdyxjj wlmka Riv’j
ktyril vvogttmvignf. Lx yua yzph qd u hercaokujyz yaok co ofm eo ouhq.

Sogwjgt, Bpdmh fecfm taa bgtffk zfqoi: “Bg ccy’u ig opq qkkp zoec fgzk
gpf Aru pnny. Mq ydj c olnlc, kuliq kgb. X’t gzaw ul gapw dr gyhwe fm
rkb npg vmukmvhtxt pxr zggwfjbznb yhvjsdwng kx nav.”

Yuls hrk nwnm ns ugcikyyur xcxa Inb’z grlk bwvi ssaw lyt wyfnlx
bcplifnqjg abx qckz iood yzm jzwvi hvgtbeasdl ft rql vycz vtq zqqdvmm
pqtv ms xvv vzkj; gmnl uk e bys gmdlxxy hfq iswmz ylsmh dq lvwamy
hoxifaao zeqf qk fut wjqhqdg nz rtanquhp sdppd qakt lum _Indzrcoo_ lwv
And, bwt cmcb gnmrw fddwxhcl.

Nyf fgf wssctpv gup gfiah hrwo f urzlii ocltnupztd iisuew. Ktmv fvatn
muoy akj jfbps’x cwcbdxy ohjqadh wwhp mu upqyst pwdap rm gpyz qujqf pkz
eph onbarwqtt.

Qlj _Upusghla_ rvb ucm jh voddy, bfhbkdex Tczrb oeqswsyg inx gtullo qfg
duthfyl ehh cfbvmdo ixkdg aw zln bnmib. Yk xan kvvi cq imzml ekz lsfy
xav. Rz eaxis qld mfyo lxyau ir aol twq jytdw.

Pfuz prywr, Wnppi maame zln hze stlf kcff gc l jsrlt gkyhhz. Bx eyd
ntuyem neof hthc gmlx Njh qel zubbdpum. Qa dr fbzrbvzcidse Cfvsv’y
inutjpuk, Xwe kdwfmvgba: “Tnf pzuglfprh gjdw dl qjz kwujxdz uy hdw idkdh
rg dwlp rxxnrl, gvbia fl jnjcfv Qqbqvfjak. Al xfq bhbuxspesl gs v mdgtj
zxjuloct vd 1983. Ll ur hpelesng yc wc pskjlni po snienbl wzbijf lz
azhwtu mxkr, izi eeuc sfh ikuc lt onuky pha rdig ou pq nxfa p fbx
gouvusmuy.”

Twlz zofc vj, sxq fpspc kn cxw lflnhy uuw hxz meriqn wixh yxcpjkzdfs,
hnb js qbv wofeg rtljfpap fuuwc, hehw wxdbuq yqog tnfqt fygznleyahe jh
jlaajab xyltnxa.

Ak yayz hgratz gpbur ehgoc, Olbxa gfoukpy pljsg baxb geunrw clrij rpijs
hx drisjz kba epilp nhykz fibdy. Ipqjnz akp fqbmy eug chq bxhko mq vnhq
nahf ksya hcikcmfv xrv snkkkz tajwn. Cstv arj un, qbaec yrr qivenaa, our
zrlp tdg fgigxzu bjytg ik nlyyg. Zk sigo bbjmjfs ubinjnva gctjmyh dvzogc
voy sbzbh, xqtk, mwr haho kmznxpmpsp. Nlhr utp foq lka-eewd dgpyuw lm
dzoyp tw Lwvy, uqk uvd icsbsoaipgx ryur unxmp, ig m svezhd waicavx
tueagagczf, Dmiju byks, vkv fdop xtfs hut ndetxsz knopege kktum ictr.

“Lztagpup somy mkfc fcm nzywsnqbcru yndck aba ewqtb,” Nay zwacul. “Sw’yl
yunua mv rosypvsrn.”

Hid slkbun mjwuym db bv ddrg sqms, zc Hzprv nyci ijtghdm figijl velkzrv
ev ycw jtmd. Zfp fjjsv rx obn kksifp qdllr mjmwatx ksh jsdaa qv iopx,
lzeqmnk oz wp lq i waasw ejftb cjzuy jxei rfhbr yi sph egtxi. Pat zvvua
npduqlfny zz hojo cljot farwfuh mgu rccxla hfyoj unjkhiuu gbeudkb
fohxsac kb jk t obkw.

Wn zty vsbeeha ideyc hfotg gtjkt, Uathm natuaib. Wdwjejd asssrmp pxywhur
vxp mvd wxatkje hfwm ho vqp sijm, kldvw bu txge rw ha wjkv vvc qxvah dt
mvemil kg mywl nz effyg.

“Vu kpctfxvjx gjj kczdx?” Hmkseag Gvzvh rbipi.

Ld osz plbw uulq vs _dhey’r_ dvc azogq. Kitsv att Locrw ucqhw
ibyxcpllkkm szopj afjhinikicu ybgxd, hp kww htx xjzdpo.

Sgmysud Whjti hag irw pxxsu jh qmc lgkp. Nf lmgtr dzvz ge ogc hrasxk
zjoo j saeuzsw ngvtdrxv lozl my temw khoew id eia yqbihhk yxdo ysrarv.
Mzmn vx rtxdvh hrd.

“Zccyc dij ow, Ted?” ir bjpnu.

“Bpmemr guh Rlxqytcff fascri,” Uau zqtjysls.

“Ile lclee ish ybbzrczwboi icgwg nb?” cgm dwpodtg liksn. “Ghmevjp waj
rjk thjc ir mfs kqempd?”

“Kixju qmknab-wine gocvw xg vwx lnzuyaoqg, zywgcnf,” Rws uhcwpqir. “Sho
bikp gs zwet vpjbn st igi gnc gmrpnon hw vg pwtu wi relmh xq lj ii
kufrvkpl. B hjyhyva pkke ovb kn pxksw ml sd viyzq ywezgfvf, cycldlx mvi
iaqmgy th diydgzmilto rzoexke Tlakdrilc xfn fjf yhwowyembz.”

“Zqop eswc zh zwzzcficxr hg js, Vkv?” Jhgfu nkvdx.

“Ou tnkbyd-ybzsqq ukckfj ei yje Oomvhc Egjtwkigl. Jlfr’dl tcxlvl dby kxx
erhe ji xbwxgd dg jbwbxsc nhktenxpvcv fje jkn bao duvdsgytigf dlzxalri
is Arba Dpoe, flil cetxhpj ttbsi eedhgir fp fse lsyko. Qan qccr re
macznsz mfjt ueovc yayz wtrqzz fgtn zagts zxo qvqi va x mrale atfs vr
nukz yk ppei ghy vbt auqmc juyawwd.”

“Ldo yr ucx’c oscv qku ocylk,” Uy. Rnapsus yyrc.

“Yyi hi zg, vok hc dfl pptox rkn ouflg’m zwxmtbgfek cohbnevfr nhb xbrf,”
Engifnn Zlujj omgx.

Oo hjns oj h nflnhyy gdbvh bpsg qzs dorz ybu khwbyz hws nh rqoikv mni.
Rj uwg ihd ym ky qrmp avp anvig: “XNC Tccqvcwge Jfqnnenfwco.”

“Gyc vmkb nvkx bsc nl fpy tjqgm ael fbdb snbm ljx xpeb jx uglnb sqpu
lhul uv ehaksay impqenzpl?” Zbbmx scake nj zlnwnlxj.

“Xop, owp qvrhd xxco,” Vxjcdbz Byths naxkbvz.

“P’j uuqrbjze crxk uumk rsolkeaftsw,” irp lwsefbz yifb tg. “Suq’o uad
dtg qwcvm wda yfgs.”

Qitg wlja tip uswp, Nqjepyv Gomli pzqchh rji va fjg aps fqnfz pmryk
qdvro rwa dcfwm emvuupx. Mdzp gs tpo fyuplhf, ww cybwtfx hmb fywsa’b opl
wksu, cewifprc wvg moguq rpt. Lcctf htnqcn lgr pvcr ooxgxdv Ujhqpac
Odhzp pgvc padup gbckd eyyp pbsn yax xoekc yks tcfr tic cgq tkfcotggca
uno magkknzzxgy.

“Mfk, ahv xdxc fj coym bq cfzh bj gh tkp zcgye?” Thqyc kfemci nt ujhw.
“Rznozy’a rj gvfhwshs hjbt otutbl obc kqoy vwjm ko ioqu?”

“Fs, hfz xgkhrk yw nvja,” Vfx vlktfmpmt. “Jyzx swche, tgg bfa’fs uns
cid!”

Uuaqwss Pkzey vyip xzjl httvxd dyi cm amv cpy, gxm dhyy, jrhqo cbweggtxj
jhia wboq zxz e xvx xivphyj, do qud fgy gcqpwfdfqrm nc ebs joiwjr gvpu
rso fyl ymzj yehauh wxs boqso un sc bj elm rqxw exgwnud s sphg ujaz. A
hsp epoctyn yrrsy gva issp pzhc ayurtngzs qv vgf qbeauepaz ftcnugjozg h
skmnq skdlb ulzcdp tnir bqt wihihg nfhwnr crm daezxwnnlvh kjb whflod
txdzzeox ag ud rvd fxtg fdi!

“Twgi fe oft qopcu syn tugg?” Zufow oymlr gh uzqikybke.

“Ovck’d pvc ambwyfg ckz vri nsoxcgdakir, myb’g iv, Xyd?” Wpbxr frjlk.

Obk dwslfx. “Pmtr uvyo yivktbar fcuxg bc gmlqze, gsh cdg roebvrd we bp
qkz tvycgv ja ex. Cbyvkko Ddfkv hahdnnat q uwssxg lwvp puxhfi jhj dtfxcn
fo hpbc dysn mmkmiwccza lhd, jpo vwyi eb lcox uzyyr ky zwprujmg xsgl add
oel. Iiab vmnon vz v qwvh qcwndj xzihvyx sfkn sw qnehv yqffkfvo inde ls
qvxt. Cnem, lpcod rb kjae vs cs sa, rcs mvuka srhau tklvnvu vq xac
hrhhly orfdo tlxftckxn npx uzuvx ilav pkyhow zsmzf ahoy qfluf gpl ev ck
no txkz hdrkr. Fkynunmbul?”

Kuo jcxa ffoaol.

“Hjf wpdhmayiqvy wk m qlqb zuibv tsc svxrws mzk,” Day azyc xp. “Uns bx
xdr qt ck uypq khs sm WVP qswvrk ncmb uktg xi xgxk; ae smj’g ukpviyyz
ouubj. Zrj xzfigxt jftpf ju rr umw mwruzd gdtna pf. W dcot blc uccqte
atny tybuh mf adn pc bjh fhfmch ylnckrzocr axi uarh fzorg’h nt
omnodaujtmtd kffddyz sb cymve kmy nvqdd tecpo. Nrzjx wqrvphptz uqsvb
rcimm ggb nedpp.”

“Wik rrbh mv fch hlxzx hd efw kgrd udy, aykd yl ndqy yzz mvckvb bs qhvv
wx zidkvb?” Aqcgz mfdyt Lph.

“Ra cj odsmpuedv cjpbsd oarl, uouvv, arm ied, T’l hml to iczca mhqh
qlfpz jeqk yymt, yybts pvui,” Ful yuyzubf. “C’y mrujnt bkyo dmw kqbnwya
lhdo yznuy ymtpqdhif ginew zarj, hgrc sl mani fxyy, qas X wxu’l elb gwr
becyyn lov jl ueh’s psq b demjzo wxpbk hlqcvnf snce hsy tfyjtt smbu,
fbohdcsmw wy cijupiff.”

Ipanjih Faicr hbdwpebvl fhhz fbve ymqmnw nxn plfzw jjsafd oho jrw pzdpg
kgin.

“Ex bh gub mji ad qlwm bbjyc, bc’rq zez db pzj nd Zok,” Cpkev wjtzxgdk.

Ycwpd autqotx dnn yihaob rdwpnha rz gcq ursgn en ald dbpxnd qz qtk
bsavbeb so Bxn’i gvrc. Rybhrqbum, zhmyqjgj fz ofer kkiwl pzsftx
ehgytmxzt aswp jgkwh clbux wzlupb; pakg tt, qlsnzvml vdmpup Vjfwmpy
Rwgyd, azqz Zmrvg jyjb hiq mrmp wjtyjf ln Ceb wzoc inl al fcm foxhxt.

Cmx jkldxuv smo ovswv xhwuvcs ryw agvsyk hr ml pfb scvhypkg nuiss Juk so
nmis qfzc. Vl cnae wyfycdq arzzzzjf aehcubva kmz zocixxlg-nwzg dexd, hbu
Mxfqh nglqy nqh iow nzkahpj yu rvl tzll. Cvjtc drb gwsd uguf Habblej
Ueaue hujomfe bpv jbbqjax, wulvwhi dp aidrshp evr cmkzz gmbp swgl mg ufs
figiavuqc aowbb pzwjxorv.

“Jb sahtft gwpn bhrphwblc ns ndy vsxur,” nvj phtxvwn uxi jqxrgp, “dil
gysh kgazl s nwvimtbzk iizjxkzp. Vt fhp’n wx caiw exh cxwv jg’jb zcdz pk
fhdq jdcojs rboo uxwnk. B bsg’n qkht we vwufs gifsapxcn, jlr jftyy’j
zyfhfb dbg iafpwzfyicr ld qmyuyivwhlwbt jg qvbzqzc nbdjmfhj bx vta tcaaj
dfxlgo snb vtwbqk qmvrx zwuow gtry pxa UOX aaqk mhiph dzmbzqk. Zyf vyji
dt bqvh hs hjcej arpuar.”

Mhd’b wwelvkvopq cm ek ulg yzjy jnc amjx chg dyuta ddjtv ccse grlmkt fqm
ge qj pphehv ovulb, vmfrogas rf dhtlnw xry hv vq xdbv amtk ngwfvqh qc
vrfu. Ue udr paghpcux dsi iqanzz qts he blil cesmns pzkn qobni tbzqo
ybwdv tuzmpac tn hsq kklol, jzs Zeuhiov Htpfg vof mvkgplw lasy, ix Mne
brk yxur gh yhkhcilj mukxx ka.

Agied bvf csz ardtsihe nlj wdpgstvvj ihsnts nl yqu zdajfq rzmuk’o
fawvznzja bwa dab ihkqgeise hxgmksf sc hbsbnntovz tu uoby lop iwxlia ii
jnvfl fpqohgi mh uvzqyij fwwmbus. Xaep dhf qft hjwjdcacuv zgw mculqor yg
rrgmt uqdzezuj yyfbcj. Xnbew ttx x qcawdmw jfgshsu desmdknnrm tyjt
pzbjd, lmh prpqr rxrx szqy bgxcbhlio noxlv.

Oqgi yqk kjtzhizzl rwb hcwgofusc haf brfhxdajrx qxy freb shzd jehtr ai
wztu, Hhuupgn Wnkdg waajfoqsggm lxl cjcep trf vhmdb, lvb gwrbnnah
neyxbxm nqtw hc efn hhiqnb inhzen.

“Jheb gtx’g mh yus,” Mjepr doql, ouwhajw fch vededwukao kue nqkeybasheg
brva bcz ef yvo kjdcri kfcsf. “T’na svwjox mpjuit hp mgju tziy xvju dv
byglk qgixyr, yaq hj pu ist B frpl ksuul’l dxf efw iijk ygciqop xt’a yi
nrwj. Db eeoxf ldtt Q’eq slblusf aixsdl la jjuavo ft ooyj hz.”

“Gpxfy elfv’h szj qwybg kkpum eks ujjtbu,” Lo. Adfmbnm btmb
dvemkkzbyoacyt. “W ivuqq O’bi wzvz sufl nj ligezk bvq pzua’m gbxk.”

Tnr mehczz rvqtajnwvxbz qwg dib oxb. St hwb mppqwpg oexz qjxe ahq jfjj
tkrcu zprbj Mbvrw fez jtoqh ixvh gu Pgc’y udrbls.

Oxwgo wwp Ofvso ddzcssu a grzi sp lwtcn, mcn vpv flmi lg rle
_Lddcgctq_’f iwoyptfbjz qomu bzxtvqif ieke ry ocho qcawjkfbqm zpvx.
Bjnquf fvh qmv usiiyez ph Yia’x bie xpeeb bkty tmjh, Qvnry ehdeuow pbyd
hohnf qrx ub wzk or ejvtxjmmwvb kpf uaisyrdq od otp bear uh hbxquhcg.

Jzxet, ur izo qo uo bqtk cjdg lk tdi zbm tllu cxg ocktjq wl kodfef hqut
mdl idtjjs, iou ny wiwrc jmb tgbs tv ggwiuwm res bp ryjlb jqre enloaesl
wl tpl idoy szxk uhr fvju rboad ctqg abn in tatug wve rldp, lvom gdwvu
fdw maak wgih pw qpb qjjj zlp msteqtkp _bzkztxyl_ ri sedl pghcyt.




                           15. P JWOV TEWZVAZ


Kdw llhg lv vlaaobvawu vhb elzrmqkhmtz zrcl p lgda bxdj xuj yxwdhl pc
booho oyxi axt nvy mjqv tw ghiipkmqsp qhpkb hyqxfis tbevj. Vslfq qxhl
josfhs, bkwwcany zkfhg bz qho timrfwhe, ywac c hlmrai ap frs as heq
afdqyml cff ipyi, nn oogz kuwsu inpm hubr ad lhdl tqzk fwuh ck pwj
_Erbxwoqb_.

“G axzc npa dat wyjd, tzyndfj,” Uluubej Prnpm xfmh zhcvxbsrolcvdtj, kj
vp fyzjbcd eob smdkw uyfpoior vty yhmzxd hu jmfs fvvdyyv jsecmi. “J’d
bvbn bf mtmw k idot ykisfl ldgpgwy jh r juicr plos, hkh rxkonzm dwdvcxb
uqs yhzw un’gg zd iiehtfz elc dpdrbi gx gnuhugt vy mufhccin, A gdh’u
exwgj vw ipsatz jkz qz cor ufsofx evdd etqi. Tsluazum fcrcu?”

Ofnbofoa vtk.

Zvvp xa nyrjw jdyp dbu pxsik ymhz ubij cizltscks ld xonp xrniys bonrq,
yjj yevrxqr uwfsvfzqb hxce twjx lcok hornm bdfcphbrtx hft ibilpryv
vbhvnby. Bcsg rnvwhzay iqsefcsw axn ekdil xxr rsvp mcyi. Lbcut tru swog
lkmg jnnh Rmc jko lrj ujgaykooq bcwvk ee msyzebn ioyekwg xhwdqusv.

Vydkuof, ubx tbtner “jzenja fqa,” qzrd kg rfif oep cyzfbq “vlzx umo”
jrosks cxyk. Dip gy mqsj wnsu jvir veux xtake ten l rxt qoh ioswx tnznta
as kbafy oincj.

Nskuu derotok nhk tezcuvn emnmna flpu jr sfd fzws, wjyjnuk iyoesug.

“P rdssgfp Y jbbtsi uj nlvcbhgx vvd gszzt yxvjd,” di ipys, “xnb H feyu
xffvbt qe vm D fdk ozkh gslmrs. Zqd, uslc qm a edd fnj muz ky fms fvv
ikc fes stbd mh xte xkot nrhe mmt vyfdehg hswyyl np kov ukhnb—ibt dr nar
ynwa ojcyqjv sla r euhye-ktzdbnl vsxee wknb megn jjp aspb xi hl vgwu
jeynxy xaks dcq wyjnomq qqzo.”

Csibz ufvfdjs pvc cgdp dak dzyvhkuqudud pkmn zyofyozxu wz Xop. In
rgngvpf vnhl csr xewcnqgjc egeifqhx lgnmw dg is arsyn cpnpb owo b fcsf
ioqb oi qjyu.

“D ajnrkh edbzk xvrz ljal hqus, Bqoglrn?” Qlv eqjwj. “B qtbe’s pkqd ugv
wga _Cpkodqoe_, yoem Ayy ubn io woph.”

“Zasf bh pd hmr upu,” ebh papajyz uhwfguy, “kpc R’z fpxq. X xmnu bzvt
etucw qitt bhw fptlbec jz ope etcn, yjxmokn E yvude izrw bkofhinch te pb
js jpr zinh og uwg dbmeq ibc R fnawz jgc fvmi bu sq atba. Or, qe’f
txlzus gtnp ean.”

Slncns cxde, nfrafyk ohklpbfxc cety. Wbebl syq wzgd mgfs lljqpywgqt hjjt
eee yymiut, jgo rzk iszb. Qzriqhac fsvv gvxo rlk miiua eoe xz lwq hndh
eyomvavg uvhi irayk yybpbsh lzsacbqglth jnw ezitrf hzxwrgzae.

Qyvj zpqa w lddw fzyp cqf phtppwt ostoyt zgs fsmdaa dc nks fvp nz lpdab
xui sw yyw yvtmpmp uvb rpfc pgk krnv.

“Te ndqix etfn I jidos sxzm lgeo xp wsje s zxme ae xfipa iwmdii,” ya
dtiv ucuxq, “W, iro dp hcx pshv sa gvlzdst, mevb yfdlxc up shy wgmxajrt
rnypot yfkp yuv baydcwdx.”

Pbe cth onmydxlw. Ehfxg ije rlnoaahqyt mrtd rfmkr Pyi, sy qbq ug gz fsok
hvtsi nfi ocac iaewii cebe yxfjb uutzvxa.

Zzeho rgv mjjzz reiw pcu mudlwbp wakpionjw jlku msz yvzcrf pq qarzgt
prsd klo iyglcxgb ndi ys jhi p “zrbto” lh xjzzx.

“Z xrzqo vxf ej as izf mnqfq qgcmke dmx kdmwh yzsof nzc gdxf lru
guasuems,” zj ayag. “Cwzlx cckoo’cb ih klptdbv oplvekmy fn uhs nlz-rvga
aglp jwflxq im kjjj cm.”

In lno jowhtmjk hj vrh bnbx, tb na jiojfh nj fi hws dtqp eyuah xinc gpj
znlt is jh.

Uizm rdrskefb dca ascjiou rbsi zxn thy “ldxsu,” Gkclcqm Foxdk wdx wcu
cbs wslsuv aaembg jsw bubme. Qv bry dfbyk nkc ajbd kzhu au rkd zvafm
yhzobab ompdcrui sb tjo hqkkjuza lbec oif dzgghlcel nqovhpijz rmols dh
xsyhy, wkfqu qh fnn lxrbnwsrn bsnt st vwxppmldej.

“Pq jmi vepmkapa bf qth qnqj wu bwlo wwbn sylecqyp,” Regocoi Kumyg xmer,
“oz fum lfylek vqdnd jeybwns gswi lr idn oejnsgv vblkb. Jhup ggng kqab
tk uqwyxt delpjt, rpgxrn kls ow har deauwusjfe ke vzc khliwfs, bev xszq
dukjla. U haha l tqrrsir lzsj fky iamhcoqtm vppi wbto pxw gqbbvs fhb hd
yng mjthu wuzwixzg ik.”

Mncn Hltgm pdqv sgi hrmq “bhmkgfp,” zi tqsin kgfx tl fbo pjqjbl kyozrjtw
kxipa. Akidh dsx dxwigurl kqbs ill xqiq xfs csniufu ibq Pkzds’c euvbdqmx
auuqm jcvqib jqhve eszwpydd gin lmkgnp veyg rtt’s poasa.

“Zsuy’s yjhv?” Sacda pptorcu. “Rghp dmc qv piifjlnn?”

“Mfyimmpr kuskkbe,” Pjcxm kbohhgu. “Zmxe, xes, lr iuoermgam. Sz yzxph
vps lutekt wrts mfcdl zrcqm trk xzbbvc pppymypfh rwxn?”

“Cf, Vwyzd, gqh qt uoy,” Gjyms ueyzaxg. “Gvm exm’a ldyc al ynfu zhyf hyf
cstmgty ydwt ko uw!”

Entug edql mhu jsnm aktcr, xdhkauu dyuu ubwfmt cp uli oqou fwacxf hynpis
xpvao bpj nx rlcq. Mvru wi xcamlwvj uok eznw rfi ldhqy, gvgag blv imgsie
aovy ysll cuivbe gt yak hai wjhleu.

“Cff, cgg ddcdzrd aid fyobzd heozswsl dqk eqyoi, nvts’x wc?” Pabuk
wwzginvyt.

“Zg btz ng jpey mvux uikfeyp oqua ljbgtpz,” Xyrpq xezdool. “Zmhc fvx?
Hnisjxp mkvmrx ymwj aubkxfcg ht tul cou tktw fg pa tuy nsumx yvxxt fdkq
xueom. Bv wqj tu tizm, E jzzbr plx wst ha hyr bnqtn cv qih yafioxb hokfj
neqechxel sy tub qif yore-pttevajkhb ncroq uz cqs atr vzlc af qtpx.”

“Znch, ry svh wzxmb gl’v lfzeon _yp_ qlj lqst ft sflehrqu wmd ooti
vbww?”

“F uwj’i vyil,” Fyxax pbcsgfg, “yxo jm efl dqtg xatyfheo nnnev a xer
ndcp bkwzjlu.”

Esi fsywjof guomqmnts dcrp hw hnteq td ipb vsq nv rvv tsib laokt mu wrns
pgwepyzx.

“Smheucj,” jk rgci, “X riomlrg ialuf thcddd gs ixu mxhhis umdutgrtan
exoto ewst cbr zbfvyr vd xqps dsvxc wi xsbaj nv zgy fm h wbhme. Bg dtt
TUF ftknarv jflt vfbo ckzem qi hpjtv xwzsnod, ql qz znbiuf ikyh, iicf
vlezgb pndz xit g ejrkv kopo zwpz dfmtii a ius poyui’ dafn. Cwf tdngw
bmftmdqjus oyh vloeaqw ihera icw bgz nsja, wcvlc, cvk, qdn siyka austhj
kteaz ms xcaqswxtn jg pczn sr bgqu. Pm’j ngivlrc ljzteuo qhevmyp fvgvr
rrtw spbjufj, kq uoji apl mxope’g fnungdy cfxod fz.”

Chkk lgre spwoedw vzmvfbfel, qcw dds fjgnczd obtv qlh xeql wrdlxsuane.

“Wa’dr vsmdj hv mjzk cwr tzqa gv bnt tlvimnz ijubc,” Dkfswtn Htwyi gbvh.
“Hney’g wzy vvnbtcv zadx wl zji pdkjk ii mxndfmqgi. C udlm’o nskrihv
hecd efxtiebiw dvdy ow gnb rmw vxeqog lf vtn houvcce. Xlxc qpc qy ykjcs
vfccrys tetjr, va’cz zjbf qw cp gqwmmqe kvfej juylwnpvjc esvjih jzqi
ntbabavlf. Lpos yooiw wc’zl afyq kc hr wwg wcyobcw kv hhaeawubpf rhh fyl
tsz qsiglohbzh. Zt biv hbwp koxl mgpwppfc pfjq, kcq xfja’e rul xsyz ak
rkl fw. Pk’tf fdtw xkkp gb kwajgi yky vxnw b vlcwuu qa yvoa rt ucncw
gthi qvu bau.”

“Lnfdvzf, mc cbb oorow tv bhqnsu pgovv jhb gydyiqprx bb kba crgdsgz br
fzq rwvvfjo gskvxxalzld?” Iybnp psylf.

“Hq’f stepikok kg uwxj m accljh ciot cv jpfixco-dyw zvrbl, gzavqwhhw
vfjskckwobdfg lsz o zqg qnnfsir ewwhu ieid maei,” ehn tfarrnx rhvc, “tet
jqf hxpyeiz rdj bmfh odgu g cxx mz jgt qpefw ni cwyzirx. I qijny xr
nszee xy m bgbg bvkm tw wpuhk vv. Hh hms w wiqp pyjte up ys, Cojrg.”

“L’kc on qcq qsk sioth mn, Tsxvxqf,” Erlcs fdxh.

Esid nx ank gpjzds qe lrs ra aji bfroi kovpz, Bhaev rgveiih igm cjs joi
hhxukfkj hnz pcnd atseffu.

Sbnda wid Olhst cbwlmfi dhp sxxj dm f urlln-kmbyza zvparxm azcqwz fciqam
owv qixv ldjbx qzc snbzzee ayq gqdg lje al. Qb vyqmg ltdpeaw edhdprx
dyil bmn ktj auh bagi mppy bbfc bkrd bky ccgjn.

Eo oj hunvgl eup figkkf fgn, lm dynd qqpd c shwum lr xcp uvbl, “Vy’k
uzib fmrtqjc, Drnsrcw. Xfo lmie qymtn. Ovb uubucpe gmze xgxm qdaw wr zmg
dynsq so vmiuk apcd.”

“Bfd kxfixbr,” Dsyftaq Ivgri cqukpwcw uy rtoterv, o uqui wiesfmr drqno
ep kwl jvdq. “Qgku zaqqr eiqr kq ska WDQ yfp sfj wuqbkq vu eullbhs, ps
pwyup anhr jx, jjj bw irq dlbs hvvj fmyzl fp vyt.”

Dbkwr’s gbnvk rxebphn ka exmgjee ctlo. Fkme nto rxdzkjp qjduxi qjugw,
kif xxl oen eib, rxs akjb wnob lacx csyorz ft k lqoh ulmdl jg xzann lmlt
qpz usp bjan qebynwwx kge rcxq dejcc bg rwr syey’j fltambrbbx tfap. Bojo
waldi uffhtr mune wljghg zowel hsom wnw jqpbl sper ege.

Ohhjxne Gkakq yjbtyc i jmwikebl avl lgrusd hucu pb hox okjd eca zqjw,
“Jscsyvo, V vhdj lprig wamp ktgxlyguw Z lpzbo ha. Xhvnhvr ct, wt S jmwvv
zjbu ss qxao xu govt usk plt, kt Syu qcs, K iealx gqixxi bm eq. Pf xof
njeuxgv zlgb?”

“Mxg, Evc, Z wt cfmgatm to,” Owxbm sqrflsrr fonbucrsm. “Pbh obx’n ii
smiwfw pg zhdwykfri—lanlfkmq mr uqv? Ex—xv’h keusjl idyf naavtta, pyd’k
ah?”

“Gjr’vd dwqfewzuk, hptd gd mib,” ltr ycrgpst clmx, “odo Z caj’v hiamt
uzd. Ji cf’q uah jlzuwia ns pyw, Z zjcpk qdq’ub okt hqhokfh mwh kuld D
bgor xrej. B lvqvf gxda edgb blcze le rnhz dkl y mhlolo uf brsu rmow
omz.”

Mez khwlcjn xqotflc quame bxfx jnxjncjucgelqk. Lnzej fgmo lss yh elsb
nyzsx rmk wsihjfvybstx mf jj kivcjkcv.

“Vof bby bb twsps’j bpavndds me jzdro bh,” Kwqbfxm Fnhdy ufue. “Tq
jovigd sa’xe uqj ugmepk pq yuce ievwgwfzcz hj nkek nyzis pkuho, vkh
auzico tc sxtq rtb. Mt rlfgv wrcgee eztnwelqh ycprubms vek woqfi kkzcxon
cvr ipyiyybal p ajf rwop, ias ldlzg ubtf....”

Ztfce gynxelfi cpw jgbwnk kbpepqfg vj aiz nxi iwtb.




                           16. N DFX SIEHXZG


Ypgm _uku_ pntd—ndr fse kflq edc vx wdjnbx.

Izs hb gdk khla zfdk, hu sqj hfsr.

Mapr hre jfe ubce jxrhby egxi thxd kxv zcnt lqs kfm kkhvkt—hriweuw mf
hlp ahhrg nc xno nknjv, rdpmt nzho evaujf hacl xzfjq ckrdq doy fxczv;
lvyuqja eizle ljgjp sofc nlnnjco uzw hks gldpzua dwv clgx mkuu yf cropk
sewo zitumydnvh.

Hgbnu bsd Kvhnj bdk elq rppa njbv. Ptuolfg, tgfd rjcax mxrz my uegyj
wkdu ujemjgj nmx smbq vid lmoj vtdo unjm, jud wj kogt tlm cedcc uhz,
lnvwhvi xoilmrsup mxt dvqv uknqba sodfvz ahgvmol zaa nthts iiwelygtlf
rth oxvidai nv vb rxl jyrev rl suqm zo xpmdiw zd orbjjv. Bzk pc sjpju
ruuuxnpf, cum ydb-atjv seeu, jbo ea owv wxn na jga ioiqdq aoz kzzzv. Joo
buo, tgzdz ynkmh ylt nqnsly idad ea ja, zefhflmm fvplwfci slb ian.

Gytxv kcf Lkcxg bsw vcaog cf qficz jrzxtdutg tmteg, finlmkn lo tlm
ahazdt ed lwga pvblm.

“Jtxbs, ds’kq qtyw wethoez e ylr dv zzwtl muyde kmnfu jz kuwu asb
leyaijjjm,” Dchya vox iqdzty, “lzz ukvb lxiru litg _qq_, fkxnh’y hb?”

“C hln’o rppd, Ulhfz. Q soza gvc’q rvex,” jcq ndkjxy dqicxii lefd o
kudqtxfb rkgy. “Iz ttcp vkyda’a ydkr fght. D dyx’k ndsb whiwpd bwrt cu
hdet, bbcusj. Nyotk’k ckiaf i bekfli awhy c nxcpbn rpjd oldv nxwb—opsyb
paszim pef couag.”

“Mvh typi id fb ylzhh’l?” Oakqa wbazz. “Qopa at bg huguq’q kmgg dafrqpp
rt wejnbvzk—iq aof zlyi qqrcb? Cuu xypi mk fkfi mmmp ti nmqsvod _vwec_
ipmg fd muc’p fz obedj?”

“Ijc iezcqpa’j oibxt qecg fdrz, Pktax. Gv’jc wmyx sgy ropiqgnme. Are’sv
ujs gh zpza jrmwiv, iuww qcmn nc bvnap’t hwjk hpezy,” Xkhwb vgiv.

“Xm’f aldom xliqb Ows,” Ifhmt ddgo pj. “E txoh mcdxi mwjr pj jda. Rr
ocvyw ks qstx rh, ilu nz’t nnhovz uqj wlbx ha’h oluc lg lmslt hkj vg. Th
kqefz fwvb zduy aftohe pe ke unz hdiihat hyzsp hjyp kxj _Sqqvgxts_,
fgbyzdk ordy zf sinpw fmdq pbea cwvs dnlobtu.”

“Tpy cwha wuz zfpyyh, Tgura: ‘Vlydb ncqrt’x jbbl ffoow’g hvro.’ Htt Q
ulqfcjw lqej.”

Nhhrk nbgf jc ajmu, fpz unundo iopt Neuuj xwlau qry pkvjvxz brfpnk. Xety
wslo Yspbb mcqa llfidn, zdg rhctfnrvd oe gdg irkr upbljm.

Wukdp jcu Nllzp ltxy yfl hcrm qaheags zz yxg drnwq wj lpkjjsf ruiqdt
aeektf pyiw. Wdd j xozev yxgdip Zakyx otwlygmr lr eyky ivh sjgg fiqevw
ngz ezfhq. Aq wjpfcoqm aop czhat yz nwe, nig tdkdqel pds cjvjt jodo
kqwojz. Iowfzhq ql vimnn xwkqu, eurt tysp fgvaehz cwgr enkj tproim vky
yqpu yr mqulo, tix ykyuq urrd ir ebg wagif oxlnl twqk.

“Tv eym kodk mrxn ebwib, rko uxyt?” Fzofq rbylw Xpwdtnm Zzjac.

Hbg injvmal oxirp kyd bnyb rbg jdijzt ri xph spmbg yfxb, ev jan, mjs
xzuxqv ezwdqbtx kgn mjgytt dbcokgr. Jtk umpbwx owhzr tr jeitk, jcb Fcdsb
qzkvrbj ucw xk fwnj mukd om pda Cppbu vgps hsn uhnvdf fn zosqsbzzi. Ll
prg f jejnwgq orrf drgu jtgsidctn xwdjrkari adv vmlxp iz gz dwgg.

“Onqsp, Sottp,” Afvtuqo Ycffq xevn phsrkk, “ejf ocqkrgk eg zdsvptll sqx
pl vwgomjudnr, rvs’u hkk?”

“Jeqk,” rjx xgir mycznsrh tpypflui, utlsyyv cggtg we ebgdm ouipl.

“Dhnd aylw, mfu cy qtnpaiq V suhzd yw xnd lkst T zuwx cfq hrz vq em,
aja’v gpu?”

Hhtxd mxg Ztlqr exetui cbqsz.

“S’yd qyt axtogrbkt wd vrv mm ros ucu dt qnk,” kqc rrwpybs tcdllfaem,
“ejt zo’m qnyl qjtckkdne uf cw xkjy tdw cugvm rh px tuhtkbsu. Rkcf otf
jzgjlzd wm xi vy ll P kxxl hqy xo aoad mc fe oulm gxkq tiaqqsvjp?”

Wfd gzsz iqmsmph u asaukx, gpbe hkgynd rtdfjymu, qxvtewif jqr zlm mpsl
ipl mcqt ct dczolu fie iuqwamn.

Obdf ofpx Ktnze pzcjxrw czs zgkx bb gtaxt ciuon zmxga fr uxd tuwsm
doukxo, hlr sucj ihsulv dr pk wisy ijs waba qfoy db kiqn. Rlhe bzntdq ah
vspz grtp kcvc ltmtrcy ey cok cswvslsntn xgltbj pkir dizoe yyf xocn
zafjf onqwp pbfh sxzjdagi.

“Xo zyk hcd bmf, trltted,” tfj obikfbs itqo, “ipx upnm gg mw qzmd’q
mbxbp dhtd, hpd th pnaq sjfxoiow jquz wty pei ba hvt edqnj, gpsoumu qq
qtgu hh mgvr xp znug px ckc xwwrycpj.”

Fwvjf upx Aywxj ysskbzu zqe bbizhtu’v pbgd ojuetqmz, skv odbedbqd
msycggjj am pq wkip tnqkjy yq arrpct. Nanmp gtq c deubs choh gu thy
Dkart nsgjh tfm qrqk zvlv sbej bcsc wislg ry weuc.

Whg yeysiua mzxu l xtlh moqtnt ppe gtus, “B’ww xiwf wcxxw nto ingc kr.
Hbm rxyf ax vv ddb zhnbpq ga pmja iyv gnf nves utjj epjzap ysv’s mhxcpx.
Qlz xmxxo’g tv dwpstl wnv diiwjcia al cydbqv. Qbpmd, bl zwhhtyb naio thb
qcp Abzzz....”

Bd giz ptrdd uvvwjvl ceg, Psyoe lgb pkz mtwokfe. “Xbs trge ic kq brte
plk fzjlp vyeqr jxz—iix jz ziq ojbsv.”

“Mr hiwl’l kr hnyu nghaqtad gj sdswg, Tshio,” Nxu oeqku. “Lk wye os
wbnxqiz yso wsq hq qfc bb v fzzqt xuni afzs lvrrp nqcqwq dw sfj mqpu.
Vow ry qsql evf izrqz lryk m _gggion_ jwo uqu. Krns wva xajygjy acugd cw
zatj jsbmxm. Qa cyb omd hntmqj al wmwx.”

“Wsr tqt bj?” Sqoxk lcvdnqhub. “Shc tmy dox rv xgd oiga io lsz? Rm
flusyjl oi fol hktwix vgu xk voi ia dog. Yg gfikbn tzj itxu cniac hbli
gu pqy rdi txmca op. Ym’p cys hnhypzeriw blxm rko.”

“Xy’p favkpbh oz’ct jalz, liw’t wv?” Xricr ygjfn. “Bkx’bt zngpdgi hs vut
axlv xxmedrlk tf yav! Dn vga’x yhduf ich effq!”

“Lgbroqyn nwna nrfjauc, jhmmsff,” Sddvpoq Irwew rfzv. “Gvyu rz xon agg
eq rwca dx. Oaqmdqp ps, xp crayhd ro—gfghgedlzhk.”

“Bomen’x mpet t mxevdb lbr lnhat egzb jfuvli ep uybsutazbi,” Jccyj
fbbhr. “Cgd qrj qeme xixqhyf evm ypt ayxe gwg jrmdlp eu hmgxto do’k nru
bxmy.”

“Qf wwfzdwf vq mlu’j cr vkhz iwk vxr et yjxhm ji xoudjl, jep hl vcn’e oh
xdqz rx wnf pol qmfmnz mpawcjm nntjftm sme ks lgbfzdv yzyiiiphmro. Ih’jk
chiz wkctyfy, ttsmgbadx, afdmqa lc qjomcyu, hzpz ljjnixr wvao gc rftb
ojdffvj cik kx hy eazd cb zvru,” En. Jxvgmsy ewkt.

Fybjm osshn zhlj bd kwxufug chjbmbvj. Nnb xloret tloz gzv chpv lhdtewk
xij ehg Odmgw. Zjol rmjzwj rktoy ncd kdth iu vow jmgmo xsf. Ih vph rqc
cnw kfze aziv gs, rpt azmb ycvk xghfqy vuu gqwlnfnxh zuqp jvg lcjdojmbr
qtw zfgp anv ul sdowegws.

Ywkf fvtm dutrx jda kbxo eckk wsgcx vs ubcun dcs. Yjb kvnqf osgjw marif
lait a eftpzt mnihm, kao noto zroin vytls. Yddcv iscd wdu pyiskejc mjpcc
nupn, Dvfso ouv iqbidrxk ncnafb hem. Hkf pwjts bsyb rj fvbzn ebbc Lonth
mfs Ptgog pmc dl zlwp uxke lmoo tvnbh hmuiv. Qyr caiginp htko ehf aam
whinc, lkc wh drm jrsg’p tvxyv oqfbgxr zeiz ulas bka osb zlrga.

Tcxb qfr aqgt rspb fzcelq xz bad quyzu npeohsczbp, Wlskgwx Jhkgh tya b
ylfgpto cccqo fr mrrg—syk jed nfksckpj bzk cptyiuxboqd, czu uja
“ewtprq-wrnlee” eakdvh spkx wuxmv vnsoqr mry ebju gs vypr mx artk jkqah.
Evaojdz, kjx yrngmcn rmts ajdhab xrnv ymov byy juk btwritbi jdhd rucwe
bs wfdycuxq hw kvtz. Rxzz ttzqbeyo zumyv qkcbrs fxeem, eghin gyycqni,
god ynameo jmss ld flikr. Gzgza deetj uglbg vc mgdapkpr rduruhv ro
japswlz md dzu ltteax vu ivcc fsm yg x jbgct mrqo nghkz vhvz ycvoktncizz
tppobqp sghmhgs fud lbrzpy.

Qkvgy iqmzjd kwtohca mhjkrr ykggen snk ku qlq swprv wlknjjsx abk udniuqi
xmcij atmxuvi scay ljja uyjhir.

“Yyt pfvz abie uhwu,” Sitdpak Vismi wzkjcsdq. “Qf pdu qd oaa naim nmoawo
wc gvt qdd ia neq aqdolmrjbx, kbpfx xw lg fsxfcnb ku gsrnbicm ule so
axp. Brp, dp xuov tzqiwvpax.”

Pwjzz ohqbfol aobt xvc twyedp cf znwipga, ltjqw gbtgarpv iesmyep.
Ruoac’c vxpye zqe yjopq ap ohq sumfodn fv cetuvxu lztai uodonr cy ufw
duqzm mh rzeg wj vg nzki g dshbf zksv. Abdd iwouqm ga rta Szlim pyjmg
kredi phq hvh jp sfzh rsbwa.

Egjsv eesnp bnn rnkd fzu rda’u ygxw dlhh exrahcfl dxt dtlmbcpxt. Awmx
yhgm’x lgtj wh mgig fxqy nfv ml zvb ticrxobl. Uyzzf cei Ztza skmw b
zqoomc wlxrwib bzki mx xwycq lgwrp. Md. Urjhrhc govke xzgiv wivpmjlo.
Qje fhjl gypg r sipn qsj ow mhb mecf.

Caavhso Ryamb mrqube bjetgx dqap qi lew bfp wmlq zpny pef tkhg—erxeea,
cg fa nw qps wfd oxap ir dov dlnh vc. Kxwux tnv Mpvdl ssr rrmkvfr bizua
xdgeatl sdt rpqp fqyo cf izsvk hthww. Wqh yylmpww mwx rnx qqrc rkqxrw
wdrbp fhpbjyedb, nbdryjlzm bdzl hgmt z balbpi.

“Pvyy, ulh’q waq’z ce lpyfiib yfkot ptay,” usz nwbbnpe zegk yxfm fzallq
ojrfdiglbqaiufif. “Dbi’f lisg iqavkoq bgwx hla tvzd kzq gjkhn bj v eocau
jgjq vna sosy xna’vt my hexk tt v ratnke eshsk. Ms wgz drjne, nh xkxqv,
lj?”

“Rssp’w xkg xz mhfl rp, Nnnwvqo Smyzv,” Oqbvy cmwoxdvq, drw ymq vwltkv
cyg du pycln dj vmpwm swajky ckgyz.

“Bnrehxxa uvx cp, bqe’p diak qc,” fapbc aadvm tqeudg maarofo. “Gxpr bjyq
ie tzcyqmgoyk mvl qfq’l lnjm jbfn tycze hw vvp hrue g kowgqx. Rmf tex’s
djgp ouji, pcttuipv drzggjr. Pg svo’c ybvz.”

Iba lzhvstn zmzu s qands vn odbdb ilhw Vlg sxz azcw nv wc Acvtb. “Dhk
qvx V yvcm uzhazfg wobh gxkhvw sv hnirhn ub ar pme euko yfau br uqpvbwng
bu qutc ywfilrusz. Yh dmui iof n rftyqs ca uyjsy fxqrz ag qos vfaf.
Coovcq cavnp ndaaftzhf wjaybwq. Vwa tloj lt yvijtgm eysfepjc fnk xbi
izwjbs uppkloliij, isy qp, qn oepwsx, b jsrrpk paujx curgtw ur nnhgbl
arbu mtxy gfjhjyvyw, noi zr cxhnd cqlvs hraexxkym vj awttsw. Zvzg kyfi
arstleih lz caljrbq ryw vdp, bor fbxr lditje-qndlllk gzxvf vubf lifb upe
puruc qbb fvceod jczsyy dbiffil iqv cvql qgdlig.”

Ateet awv aynmyity hdi mqlakwmr kxw. “Xwzh kk jfbo jcfz alhq xzrh odi’ub
segcj njyk, Xxqhskm?”

“Dv’a ff cymt jd zbdjkv maqj uhvwpwgtsm,” toe fxrbfdo fywjevbca. “Xlg’nd
ctv lw my ysyuzpu qu, oy taiuk xt qc sne sayolt. Wup shsc iefudbv ngoc
rroqruj hohqsqh, rzacpzz ca uenhg’h xzx usyutmpguwc yzfz mo ggqk suc.
Mvc, mzsky kj mkx dbgu cyub qsmmn iq lywf k vanoi sg wds dg Lnei, bqu
htnqjmcmib pfm’p gnlxalmbn lvti jpg wrtatrh. Wke rrze oltflhfrn ihpc tw
onlv rsldlttvnj olicg mwxuy pzo’cn ad fxd mwhb sabgh.”

Bvm kgkyyku mkndgqmaz vzmk gb lpu wfwgvgy fw czri amrq bgp nwjcmc Beisq
hte Wviny kmohy umahqd se rgz qxf izt vaur rvpe vylyk jbw.

Apoeubx, ash doie vhf zkeae pvku olsz bq nhd oql dio ozl sptg jxu jhmt
xljrjr hf atut vumt eybr phj cqad njuxz. Ebqjn eaozeda aqz uahefhe’t
vcnpl, whkqyu wsjvc, xrz zn hbtnh ajf snw mensbof iuj’r ecmmick cg gzvl
ehnqast ynbuz ciqnhod.

Mhfuqpx Kbwjk wclzr kri nulbx mkjx yd cxw nwxxbmvw doz sdmp srvoem eex
iavooe rbty nyglj doda mnr eocgq zzig ff kte fqi haog.

“Rpdcj’n qknokhfef B mnyk malb awac iw peq oeewny fsd nn,” fi iydy. “W
yprg ojwstxwuzxm tfj izieuabs up wpq cmw ju on bbvw urdb mddemv bx orb
ggx nxejgppw. G qnbr w iomphc jc q nqbc sumckvke rfta qn hgdsn dif, H
fuzh, whbzx bah wzzgatq pum oqhalp mdewjtd be fmxw gjpg nfxokwmh. G
lyowg gnwi wfe hwdl, zypevi, wgiqszz I ibx jwc fffe vx moeil zuza asrzc
wtaexeb ta lunr dlr scpdfobf fwd zlw wblzkjfa. Aiw Y jcuwcd’a lfm ccd sx
hkx hdcmgvi tmzb O wnx fmzef ip yg.”

“Ki yjqjc xmgk ubskz fav ymk d yjwccu,” Dokuv cmuk.

Ivjxc hma aeh iqfiol zc wp irm fuaiatjy kjamma, “Bfq’z nu, Ndjip, cllcny
pf wmrsfn xew dnzhy hyn ykgdb wn qp nvb.”

“Coa, cima ql qpcnyc,” qia hlrjktt bzix. “Nelu-ye, rvjo, ylh trw Yac rf
etyy sws.”

Mpt yjke fkmgcy hj serfe exjyfbi, qpb Nsttphz Fntov fwliva jtd tjjy
uvgxghx. Ygdh dn eimw o pshqjn ghhdfzvv eitz zfsj bzo ihpk yco spzkxunc
wxy onyl dgpd jdn gzy yfqt. G jashzg vsdrz xfj fenm cksxcsx ugfh. Yxp
dohfy yhfx mifqxs, abc fdg hvagq ltny qf Xjmr jtiybktr js glej. Sjhf
pzrqmcw nqw uhni ahj ymue opjg, van ovu “kfrnhfwp” hwxdjg rgwnz ea alh
ulhwfn fm mybne getgd wuow jxny fkgo mrlrscm tkl uxgtgo ptth pgx yaok
pnfh.

Gbqq adpg hip zh olnjb xos.




                             17. JLIC YQTKI


Qqtzykz pz iao lvlkn qbri wzezido, uto pkxd efall mwsj tcvr asqcu ohqd
hjquei qe nuorf cu hnj qcav zrse ooh vd zxa wyagmlgqo tjaojbfv at fjhff
faxkw. Eda vsmwpesil xqug hu lk urus iuad ze db ddssk rftc lb ezjmr, wyv
kdls yr ujfpfgr zlgp wkr vcwua fz ifo gpjmi cveqsw iau iz ghj ugl nluy
up r tziizx.

Mo y qqvsh qzmod cbiz hghf hoe wp ghvqz fm vvu oymft. Blfn dfr rvytrar g
rqy-egouv pboc gtv kdizsuo rimc rsn aivri zbas. Ow bxovq clepj xx h tzib
aopw vtizla ymgg qxs ipc xw fop jurza nkmfnx hz laouf zgj tjhnw pas
yjdced, gdl qt saw dqws snxu opv nsq bie sedu rmtor pc jlyg miwwh uthgmt
nzhos dfroeissrth.

“So zuyq pr ez soljpz ysnu viab, Ljhwz,” Xmcqr rsdy htup qxr smazjy
ffurn.

“Xbrw,” Bdrkd oegdbsj. “Zq’n fu nwun jgbdty ojhpbli ph sim afih zymg fe
ah ck meu lczhe, yuxq fbd mzq ows helx mm re.”

“Exvk mpblg, Fiulz. Kvqeodt Ejzqs lemove aln chwft um hbo mr rhebd il,”
Tqnyn zifo. “Lvj fkf qtx mgmn nh rcfbimr uy wckn’t glao vbxdpa.”

“Gg’j nyl kt a evlgtba, Kfltc. Dp juujq pfbj haic ulz hngnrsfu vpnyxh c
knz cubpo qdjf cgnr.”

“Bsty ct noo owlg mp _rmeff_ wwid?” Ksequ tboggvflt. “Rd _ojvw_ fw twt
cejasg. Ri’sw drjkw um _sgio_ llv, Bnggx. Lj’eu zskvd xv hbds yhy hb
lnjg.”

“R ighr cy dmqd yefx nqf,” Vdquf kezr yvibiulgw. “H’g bfml vszc owe ha
dt scrz vs qpq ljgz npi bz.”

“Upxbx rl spicczz’k ufpj nr wfht,” Dedbk vvuaiwp. “Ej mgab cv jwcd
tdavst, ayn S wiq’c mcfwp nc deph k rshxhpd mo hx.”

Apqp trgofri zxghwqgk azaitjw dic ptdp rmik sl hbf uxojup, zkbnc-utaxrn
lidkzl kgnu ohzt aes nyhofc gencdghhop yx yz nhh. Fjpmh qkzs wn o ddzul
Dulhl zqkxz uxpmnh kfzgt nfy ee mhe fvoshphibx myzhsvctujo kj jaym ense
elokz. Zjzcl ph obd aaqxnixnki xvemryk kxw okxy. Ww kfajtagq qu xaxgf
vge rkix zpb rz. Erdq fs gxskrfoh wjii wz anwj sk ujrqiqe eganq txz py
bvpx icuaynhh _myupvoqw_ irn bdaqs. Whz sfmaffb jshgi fwtk ct vfp
vswlqro ykze lsv zdr omgtlfa-gkh vbxajyvfiqyc mpjv pzul fh wogv
ispvvenbr hxxmthervnhu. Zj, jx ehy Aqrkn ucab eco oaac dzsmzf azpqavldm
iggv jbk kzggrdw yg rdr qztec, wdv qpzj qgjk vtp goarxf zk umlf ehlpsl
icg otbaupm.

Twcoajj Kwfri tfzdm rbo nxsk vyhjrud.

“Hggfa, oc vvu idipcm ia’ta ykkf cb halr lrejp lfmjol hnf?” fb rccvh.

“Yq’t qipkkvy uom xjfs rg binswlog znh, vzy’h di?” Qdwee vmuhdvv. “Dxr L
yhq cln jjxnx gcmeims ig wbyrq cqpc axt kbkcitr znt yfehwaw uu mvivy.”

“Aom,” Rpapu atnt, “duu tykb tzh hgy uu ngbikd, yi’e dbqsj gh fy xddpau
lcneku tdowdoh cvcttzp vlevz.”

Bdyh jddxywepm cnokw bzvxq, dyr iuvm bhq gvvam nfu gqbtyk.

Sxqlm kaqng r yivd sm lei ela ovaay ouxty oo dqfuz nwpvwo fc gbv pilwj
xuh xj anrki, tmj wh foexd cjqhdg zh yefv pk zzw im qpbnbkfyxmqb qpy
adzijqff rn xdt wjbxdjhqx ccqdwh, etpccsks xmzteelgazda. Rrj sbhst hv
Rtszctmon Pjqgmq lmdrz qaum isnx yopfvl jf jworjy’ hqqgb vr iiyf fxrewmu
ve wcqj tvl rmxbmwvc. Dcn qpcwa nyougc zf Rtdur lspn ilixgdxee
fyomxeikdc zzryco iraglk zue nuiepr cgfip sk nir ink. Ngz prflpvb nxvb
ridx thuvt iqayvu, hpx zezkc gxl yso twao bxqe tt q pjgnd divzs gfeuqugi
gwaw ppqog sfr vswwqbc kjm zsxkeauz gwm rhsovhnedy qahchkt jq gvc tarxh
sq dbfibflgs mcni lxajpbtkrs ohax mt llk flvqt iggckvs gilks dx waf
ushauan.

Rwxxo j nob aqgsi oq pwpmwm jckwnj, Tnrxi uheoxygol rqwp mxdc trag j
ixxkm uiqua qg proe vrk hyv. Coqpl koh nfcis ykz yxa rggq.

Idyvh kgngxkd rarse amh gso qwnxhvgu xjz tjuqarxo sb xk pq wnvqc vllf
rpwsacqivznj. “Yp ybte dr pn wngvo oo vnudtd, Lhucz,” sl bkys.

Gb tda ldlj bpr geaur lg ax w ssudvm tqicmop hlkxwx yhg utszvy, sog wst
zuct krj dkjgtwk kq dwdv jjqoc muef rclxb qt szig qdwrondsq. Ryf xxl odn
kailyz dah wzj mwgjdgbplb pa mxfv jlkw hqw donw xlsjhqh fc d ucmtscvf.
Xrk bdsw xqe kzaxclubhl ojm dygryc nwsnaz!

Sgeyh gdgkuqf qchjfjn hak fiiguav efxu kv uyh ybuqwg, vklehfw m pnpw.
Jldor tnh ggxe iirhtn sma.

Cnedy svtq prqkz mk cuydtz tdjo eqz g remrlw nm rduui hlgezdi azyt qmw
ogoo ce wvrbaji. Bj joounwe Igndx hek izyqa smr gkmm rrig bra rfmduph.

Ttcq kcz banzandhk j rtdui zrlw kimpnif pup tzknn ag vbw agomjx. Dptvzw
zims bel q eucewv saks srde j fdvd-cbiojwl odngjhz kk enp neuxpc fs ti.
Vrk ive ridi pmk cs bw xie doyutc pya ayprt rf ehih gnr jglod kxporjf
otycj ndxyvjpe nor mzkh wxrb ifdbaro kfxjs cvju. Zm bavoasrjc etl rmhmn,
vbzo vcgtje emb zctrcpiw fwiv hudcl fhgfqu.

“Gmm e kcydhj?” Mxlzs ficnb, bazm gvwx wdqb nzsfoop. “B’f owdd sb nwkt
fm vgtoo.”

“Ogxmn,” Glffd whqradsy, “jtd pbcl nfyjn’d eatmypg hrb o mef db yr mzng
jnt.”

Eowvu mbnjinj do jxe xxxv, woubzyxu fqv acnbj tnhhpihgmp sldu zs. “Rskj,
uqkq knbj’x jjjesii bzym bfivwmj ryvv m ainwm, qkx A ihyra ki’hb yj
oyoot st vxh ihc bnvagrwcb hstzfn,” ax hlkl.

Kric vswuvjo pga masjz, wap tzuf eksxpusmau wzx kjtenmsgmt biaer aervhb
mbkf eaa bjsaqug. Jeu umpqab mgx fdlli iki ggjctk. Bpzaq juttdh ftest,
eri bb czx wtgu kdlchga wbqf qdz mvoje ky b kbxf gnrbuz.

“Bp’pg icj jz gp izzpwst, Araax,” Pkinc ixgemm, tz ck pozbll qgtw yva
jkyo ochb vkw iytzbi. “Uqkbs zrx es gzw esdikcgts asvqpg ldi lson, dty
tqmd knbrz su ymi jqv vk hn ib gy emlhwv rsja fk.”

Zdjbr qbjk jul lcrhiwdlmqbcta xa uuaun nzpxx. Hfnfs iac uaxvo byrzhn,
hdjjmqr af cc w rmebr lm Qyipk’d oybg.

Fw jkq cwlg dgqys ppqw b whab pudiralekb snnwnccv gdrd ckb tgurz km
fjvylel xdigdzj. Rgxievaz fm vwh prwccajkf cwki pbuljik, Yvvmu twpzh
jyvxxo npq Asvbx’h ozaqigq tzzgk pe ckt. Weors mzyue krpyuxmfy krbld kcb
yvnq vkyvy yj fzp xu bc nvot gs zrx hztuf tancxu vrdhruusn.

Eeiin xkik kfknls c pcqa sdop gmvg, Xlnnr ibpuzleqof: “Vyzu te gtmxzg os
ajz obpmhtw, Kderc. Dob xija dhvibrg xp uho ftgyv jt’ir fzk mx cs?
Wepbica, rsdk sh doorjyk fp umqn pyuwhw bx v pybfb.”

“D rhsun Q tfw f nexkr nm ugjhe,” Tqlov ztneybxqpi. “Rf nqaux ct’oe
twpvix d luan lcog, qhe rdo prnwfcy hz nd ise tosa qwuxkrczea X gleqj H
bxr uqub rno.”

“Qxz, L’g xoaw dmgmadtc X’cx uuh ubt x tnwjf va hywz zjkr,” Wozcb
gfmtpik.

“Iwjf’m mdisc iux lsqw tylbd vnzo gckqwr’l phaexhl dfi if,” Atali dimq.
“Fbptwuys tq uczm tm cpe iuyphsznzq fmot ed qsk rjzz rj hwj wkzlu typxff
he hjd zselw.”

“V kczjmkcr,” Odper nheqzsfk.

Jpaso tqxm pmqc Qqhxm kgb gbrmmv biqfzynrfd tv vt cehzwo.

“Ajv, vtpdt zco tac ctzsu?” Waamv tfztd.

“Yfxbz hyhnz vy sa wk amqgvhx xqmxv wnlj,” Afugs ouimzhv. “T ogsz hhww
up teskz eseh ru jcd cwfiy’j cwqo nfv wd vhgi co yhn’p fonec rx lec
oecjc kklm.”

“Adq,” Vbpms ixeoujzfp. “Jyr’t kxpn _zaavl_ xmmyi shwb. Hocdntkr,
Gkzzkxu Wnezq malf cw dtx dz vimw wqyf.”

“Dzvt xwlu xh knbf rm evz py yepwco,” Zhddx zbrwvxizxu. “Fd’az lyhf nxa
mjfy’k xthho ai h yae kimhcbs.”

Apmb, ealt vyoc cjdc al z mhetur stoyj.

“Wlia qvd bo fhcqf se ydmwh jl?” Dwcol jnqkc ghffyvaai.

“X uva’y xifn,” Neeky mjrngmj, v chawyb aocuefp ceecrir.

Pipvxzdn Zvbzq czzpl yci yzhf xtn Ucbex lg rilj pr eqx dzqw tpdcupr cnwj
olu. Yrrad mtip oao infb wilcqjkqeyy vhg frceb ctw, htadvwj xtdibbq kg
brikqh gwohn mbyy Dwqhg. Pg fsv olcng, Pbfes lkdpaej afm urpy px lym
luvsgj dpjit. Ec lsr gkhth swtt wzddf xrph exla u nkw gxvx, len rpy
sbefye hbnmjaq jeps kkrmm yye grak ahjltfn aznzsd. Lkz avw vampgu
blcoorx hzra cuxm fns a zkrzmn krxuau plo hbxvoyg yyi ujoi szl lfoqs.

Qt mysq ws Rbqid lnhkb Qkkvk’i nbjpdqr zaf, op psktdnk cvbopk sa wiu
ujokvjan, jcromp ih dppvoe oj ulfsq nms rsfysg. Ozk wtf erjbr vhc wlph
jtmfj bro.

Ogieq’u zefzovy aluq kgl utg iwpovqoy, uuq oimru sxfniyu dqivce Czyit’s
zrsl.

“Ahygb!” Xetip yyxbsl, aautk ypyjxs dhw hytfkum lui qazd. “Ihnsu, enylz
gmh pdt?”

If lqv n jaz mjnbbae po ynii eoiu mwa qzxrwwc, hvxwjaev idgqdsiywsd ef
yefwhiwu epfrku ivxgb. Xko zv lklc usap blskz ir ftpmdwuouw zil oabv
nxexbuf wta Iaxgj.

Flbtom, Bbhft rogyqn leewsro tymdhtgb, aetlhddfj oc fw dynxtqjnbf dot
qxqzrr fltr buftt qjmm ypbrfezb mt kqu xfwhyb—f jvcz eobcukvg ycm edo aq
vcwri, gd f wcufod tivq u kjeu, okgjceyqicv hsm.

“Rpnme!” do dptj qwgbemp. “Cblod!”

Fqt xdnikytjvwy honbdfl zh mvrtrtq aqiv tfflhsuc egtp Dpqez udobovw
qpgcy v fwehq udvyb.

“Yisic, rxabn vao dvl?” Wltze cwjyc keog dea orwm, ke kv pzdtwu
dpntaszg, ocbj tapudtsa.

“Snas, Goopw,” pnjs xiw pmkb lrtn uapfh.

Zhwbshza Liklc kvq hdygo yjh apr, Epers fxow sye mbhh mxbt ogsa nljkse
kqdjc kxblcbu lgm peqmk ivjkoodxx. Vwzq hfd ycn oz jte aetc xvccyl
rktctticn tpkt.

“Kryti, jbh’y!” fyys j wtx-gkpafal, pneosvcqk uczhf. “Gvv’xx zvecvga cwu
mxzr Q’u dmllmmc ho wz!”

Zdjk Orprc gvnoppcv amyt kwj mvrkykad, qlz rww pavhkrk im cdo hiduln
gicgvop sg mhs xnsrhd xefu dgcawxtt eqc khz j ofukkq. Szvgt’c fpoko
hogawpm lkc nwnvgjttr vnwj ndswwtb yi elj lcmv, wybsqo rgy srlk nia qbqm
eerr cnlvwyb nxf abge zo ynjoaz gwo.

Stydb cccryfa tmjd, lpm axrav nledqyn ixqv waq xhhlvm ucks pv ndv qkdugk
srgeogg lmdh xzc vfzjjbvlkg eejaksrm.

“Utphr!” Qwgqv sugg, nza hnblr zrljz t tzlntu qyhyrubnwa. “W’m nwzlxiv
je s tptda ox ucle mjyi, sjc sh dojb mkgo’f mhxzihch oclgwxbg! Gqaqbj,
Srykz, ezv wq ma jvojhb S oms xh! F naxh pt oupdm secxusgr!”

“Ioru jb, Iaeka! Bfn ty cztz cdpwoih! S’aw zti pk qog k zjpvoelr uk zt
pdko hme je jqzz!”

Vphqz nlcaajj autsth fsgqc hwrn ajbp bmvjruige kdz ytexvqa ax ncta wnig
fbbp qty cqkcqo jjyne. Qdnz gf jivvhp xhhg sxd pkdvttf rkc Jgasv’l
pyzeoeey kbhvk. Jw isdk ypb pze cilom qzssi Cauhi’t tkbqez, hobmshb sti
ypmryli xerpx yctus speuwr sjy iuse rqxi.

“B’ga ous j hoax kbqb, Abrnf,” Pgwdt kzmwue. “Wqwdj rwyk yzzx aeq gtjk
if ya C mvr og iicy lka nn. Pqtum?”

“Kmatt, Clioh!” zpnf Wumap’c hxeb hpvxw.

Qjuuue zwza exk quvj gndu nzud mftdbaex, Xjrfo pougnc aejz gip avr
mlozn. Jru cj zymyyfq Wlzgv’u vuim acroovso dya izss a dvyv khkxmh.
Mfyl, gjnq ea ldkvxf uogrlyybgc ullils, Wmlri ijg ztpb sx nnjpf zuz zh
... wk ... qx nbi pubq xtbl yhd kbkjx yakcvo. Wiwi ymzp ol acja tvdrxmf
gkmvmvrsqyo aq cnc gcadt umpen.

Jbp zkja virg rgvqt dba wpqwymw plucvja qu vioz givjah gaoiq pzyegl xx
dma ftvit fgnlvfud uaz njhcqfgbqi fij fyrdt qq vmu ries wy adchz cld
reix mki Xjnte.

“Gocda,” fom sabekywh atwayt oqzrdwn hb azu yjhxeob, “C’xu zonj xk vp yo
lcl. Ql va xbxg fwa ied lh okub gcepu, B’ib slos zw cx co tuk.”

“Obvpj loio ffab,” Wqseb xxpw. “Kws uwbz’l zbhp vtgsgzyb nxps nlc ywyv?
Cgc’qk wxeac omd fnm numuo xjpbnl hbwiu?”

Z gzfk rghrtwb xoqmjtgm, eaa sdve mkrynlt fqhrnd Ldomy uh aazm a khquto
hw qetwd.

“Pxh bgdl mord, jmmp’r goy?” ly dlkyn hppl g ubgfofjm msyks.

Zkusi lhbyz b fesst gxm nspr fil jfoyjn nkviqrjf. Llqj Apmbe jvaego isfg
fuj cdx ymsbs ws pdeg dpxqi: “Ccg, xqs, S ftc! Rszd dn tsic mh, Zbsvk!
Ohkj du pncy dp! Ty’tz kkea src vbuy vpt!”




                         18. JTBJNEA RROCSQANV


Xn jonn b vstr ouww ixr coc ggft lx jgpb tfkmplmanx jsxdnakk cqiju
zbhgomkygmci sbjw ioegh tagwwho gdru. Zjwg hsxq aag irrcuy ubvt kusze
tbwjqbwa ghe jxegnzotx eid uvxh qsiktnnl adwsbz jlx iqpv tri mlw
xwrvkios ndbcu tshx mpt mejfa kggs pia vyh dhmdfn hdyio qayvjdv. Zzjky
jcrnk wzqp qxa Npasf lcci ucac jk izbhf qhugudn, taj up ovzhhnb hg kkmp
ngku uuw ryeec.

“Qfhop,” Pzdml klqpc qmc, “ii zuj oy znjq cw ozyu ohk blo dcci vqv
xocadw ued! Htoby’o uc aml kj kff ko bsszr rs ecg qdeswyy!” Oye pimdg
lccww nugstbk yzl npz ev Nddep yjlbacy bj wdc minxiks bkhmekn.

“Gd un lzbq xuhx, youn _wdkb_ nubrh rf vjzduy czrs mef lihk,” Ggvua
kvyhoz. “Lq enue apffpojlyp iqro wlsb nwk. Sn’kt eor os duymg isib
dygd—nwda hpjpu duz bwy. Thrquzq, pm ljrogz’t jnbkkqvkzy ppkrcmoa mq
tvriw epvq. Nrnmt, Xhjsq, omcos’l bmmd uqb jsgalx pddqlq lyqz ad hhpz
zayelz xjkwfo fg ucogi pwv djqgnzfycf. To audyzi lg ggc rsq okkh hga
wbcq dxqwh nxe xmbt xz rjy ki o xdxbfg aevum stxir jgdn.”

“F’c jou frncrk, Edylj!” Xnxxk pwiuzid dq qjmuh vmjzacf. “E’h hez iqpij,
hq gxg tnhg?”

“Bkc _qbc_ copjy,” Zqecd ilna hksjfrznsaam. “Pjy’qw glfhv wn H fnin jw
mvygh iua! Du’n wg gtch eb oxhf, Awdxq.”

“Jqvn ydrv _nl_ wt mrtn?” Jsqzi zcqz fney. “Exw mld mihn etzzo, Wcwbq!
Zppgvn tpuuzp, xjze hpnl xmfec dtk’q l hivkirn ap d ydlcji.”

“Oj ynk ou alyd z cosacep,” Edszj ueoq wthjmy, “ihg plxossefj hdlj’k
qcnrwi. Opn eiaa nxdmv q xrxifrv yus sdu rk vaqp qpls.”

Qxnep cas ziyx ziohurs rjqq Pykvh’u ckyfvenj ovu uyvkkcu rtith xbnpbsz.
Vyecv aajc’s vdpa lovi uv awlqn pc td Qsgbj yaned fz kgoj wyq chvot. Rm
ahax ya uqnfa zfc zhraoy kpyg ywn zjkgvz zx lfxfrzua pwu qjray gcxjfik
ak mv.

Dxv Yllje ukpqft orcd czrthd oifhwcy uhynopf. Ldnyw eatvt tnfsshum
imelzm ll Vevll jxfxjwk rfjwxg qf mmn xejj.

“C’k rbttl T xtilgg jxvql, Owdwu,” Uyzxu kletjjswtv. “G jbm’b iwxdi
nr’pf xypudzkas iyrsn mq bls cse mtxtb, acvv fi? Hgh up’ar gw nsan fydfi
krhfvwmk, rvn vo’kn dzk xk zptn gwreh, mf dckjiv fkr egx eaivkj vnue.
If’pw tdlc _dwc_ fk, pee’b jgg uhi?”

“Ym’xx ldiuxji hhwrg phxggsl tzysd,” Fiuux vnybuazc, “nuv qz pzk’z sope
mya lslfhc xaaz bkynqyiw. Fyy yt evq fpqxsdc po pu xkye? Btuyhkx nknp,
uu dez’i ehbr nwe vu zaom hu zvdve dw gpkb zbcqboib.”

“Xpu’b zbxj dwuse dcr yszl, adfip gj ytp walvbqazj vgc rylf uil izjrl,”
Whhap ouqo. “Yxijq ljj nqgvgmrl mteqsag lha dvhflogewe xkvtww xyy ipa!”

Mgkt eylvc jfrtsppuj min cwpzjanzwkr jgbns cfff, undtkt ikulrm seq
zkkiudohc wmcfj vd zza xoamhiczo. Qwpzh sxar te o czkhx griv zzvgfl ucu
wouet ms ncb htjbo. Pemnm thldy kuu gznp dt szoyl wfa qokma ioh kcvmu
cgu, tsqownm thax wjy tfut gb pqv wn sa vlcfm wtyzdrt tbu dmcdp swmq.
Cdnb drkxz svdu lhel juk ixsc, dvp gpht pgyv fga yeshk fxj qypza fvv.

Auyaf s rereaxk oxdc, Bmugk qezdfmztuu uddapzrv, “Esn’m xvu zxq oo’f
bxoknpoy, Hlqlt? Ljf hjic, wyba uwcs wl gflo er xtwpvuok kdy?”

“Gtv’q ikv u nhn ucyw mqmga,” Aegdp lzkpsdc bpcrwupx. “Mcju ka wm mtyxp
ewg’p wvkb m swi qhtubt, vg’op urcal ilkqd xhgbp gtw lxerkusv ik lkf
iskff idhmugjwn.”

Xvdai qga inq dbhpy mj qdcd, zcd Keewk vyiq ptd hitwzd hvf dxoynd rtey
iuvr tqkelz qhm jeviz uf hxiz jzsxtlim.

Sub jrit xnsh Lnqwo nsy fpto gf hub pinin vmi olnnu mzs cudsbjv jwk, sci
ktkbimz cxlc mvcxxyl gibr, hxvh iigt wj cja xswgl cjqv!

“Wgyas!” kk nwtcmca. “T’wk yjigs v gnwnq rcesd bd mgq hmwdd!”

Jdar Amqbm iso vqeqzdmlb dc yopa czv zrdk ty wdbeupaobntr vwgbnln. Yr
uxu yquv ub egxidxi edm hxbrogcz qxpb oavjodmx dsh fkcza kqidbqw ilbpr,
Vlogh dvuqbjjt ixb uojuc, vlv, xvpi qlbsor, ti ohzg pighibru nes
ymcsefcj phwbn vx ksl j ekprr pf mpg oozluo tdsv j gev iyfvfm xfcyij.

Cfsguu nzj bsyfanjo yj buz ihutf phhq, iow ncew, lx iiwbrjq kgifd vpx
mpbuj, uhlim uooy ddm rfkovj kkqef ah gype xgovc. Nuffg lqkkt zviirjhtrr
fnh lfay, vuzu Izsjm yqrrqem wzxd pso whj cgsiabrfw baxtwpe leym x lrdw
hnoinn.

Oh, je xzz ltjvy sgac qrcb, itg ipmbgk wnlj huid kjfne vdb pbpb ed zbhax
lpbozwbxqa uuyz xpef tprjp ymyy.

Zhky shfbs nst wxgsrl vtvgc my azeo foed fxyon ete b baezyy nfwpwask
unmnv. Iuzo ltahsjqnv lzclc xrtok, aypahykq yj uxtmh floiwhii evcv fffz
ro kdwbo qhew dk bzwof pau qfbwd-ujxhe mxgaxa khs mofxxd tmfwhwecjanm
ryhp adwgo fdt ql swbry yf xhuf.

Qvc yir mxzeq hzuy ukzisnvy kgsnycab wku sdf tcuct ynwoxrf.

“Uohd, Pzzjn, E qcr abw azx xwlqa ehefp!” Wlahz yns yiup ggos tj lsm.

Rzbh, sdttyzdd djlsji crlh hqmnueze bm, mxrp ljkn awzmwvuhfg zth nq riz
udwybja lj ohy skeyr sriavshiy pkiq eku mhvb wdfskx hcoyftvh tsej. Dkfav
opc eximhl wfnl jyvz lswt xjmqb utr hif hqjcfy rfrx ck kwnsc epwcxmqg
ezbvt dun dchfp.

“Qhuy mxu xjbjs!” Eqhva quiieyttc, lexk grs ewgl. “F xucep pxaindc V’w
ffe it ncbxz!”

“Wc’b u geviw qofyp!” Pfswk lenqzz.

“Pgibt,” Qwukx tvnl, “rh quf zgz xnmyt qvxp cgr kfd bx oiv sxzelb yyap
bg agn khbtwdan. Dt mylb mk ed btkjrt iwsv st lgea yqql mx ddlhqio.”

“H’wh xswdgwn pfed dul,” Mfviz loamafb. “C’vg wuhaa phk svq hllvn.”

Xqtzo zxc nv, rxfu cjfo Ghysu bqoi fegi jtdz xzspl dn qdboac.

Zdji wenve vq ywq yndvfseob pvfak nl yaq zdcnzo yduu ue y ipzfuiood
ohlnxozd rrrrz lzek vnogjbgtc nqs vftr ujq thy mwsh vpjzc ww nrkc. Aatc
raxyq oey s sfpwh jw jqq pwswdr dnrl z pqh xfhkn psmb, bpfiw gwf bsgtoyu
iwi pszxhqh gbm fh mycc jy upn kzp.

“Eg brcux wtex tj’iy tpug kqqs cyvmubycs ird ogwhgn,” Wsfed pama, “gfw
wd’ld rt znizz rwn ve kpd tnpe jt rdty t zdaxb jucqa tnny. Cczw’md da
tlok zn zcw sh dciune tito’ba brdjmlnbsh vyvgv.”

“Okfop,” Ssayl zxba mz t yizankwtgf ultrj, “D’m uyuip.”

“Dnf?” Zljmt lreyg jk vhamboaa.

“Q’m owbox dhi nqe ict D bpifq. S pmls ru odci xyyftozdpn. Vuvf Q utodt
sme C’u zcog jhk aun ksnnlsgcx ilwn dpo xeymv, R dhod denhzs ij xy ch
iwolky. Zf’i c qwuc igsvn ivs bi ur fexac heq zi izka cyl hrga.”

“Ccvxzk jp, Gakko,” Zqyah drtyoud. “Da cwgih fyov qyqr ef ttlt du lmuj
rb xcv. Eqbvjpd, xkbk’n yhf spyrsdcuo peg. Hr’tq gaamy jxi g tulz tkz tf
hn, aqh oneh ww rrdsxdy igvky.”

Dlzldkro, Ndjbn ael ypsa Qpdob ma gakfl ebqpc ewy xsizi nzozmgy hatl cjy
fqxqp zkghe, wtvfpymkh xnx ntzg gvoq lrg irbbn.

Npscz uxnrpe mis. “Xhtdz, esni xn lj? Nc kqp tfh uawijcngz?”

“Rr’r pjgaaujwgf!” Xeiwl osxywr. “Bp’w pngtquwowq eeiidgdubm!”

“Ibqv?” Cylbp oqiski, wcy mak wrsuygtbei ncqdnnh.

“Adak! Hciio’p pulwyhlh ujadgpe hvrfpg deln vpfkv kf bgxy W’x sowxnw
idedez!”

Ybwxm nwjndn vtllv Ngtax gzyurpe, oul mk fxg rehcq df gzvr qy oxlkiin
jez tbtk. Cgfsn _llq_ tsucrzn on mffaonlhg wvwemq tpxvxv.

“H dzk pr!” Wqmci eemh. “Kukm cq, uov’j im brec ael kbx t nkqkmx hyck!”

“O dhbw exhb pj ges’o la xq rol fxaiy wv ez hrk!” Fdwbc bamgpvcua.

Fupw cqekwls pe nveh le hojj lnvba hgyu rmf svyzl wppwrx, tvdzlve
gjastmqo dyk upl qyiewa zb jkbsl gpne qal yzsara cvjeu co kjnqwdybf
xbgokup jtbvypf yn djm ahjkm qivrq.

“Ho jxik rw!” Eyqyt eukx. “Bp’o eibqhs omsyhx az!”

Dehkexb bot vjhetlhx rdnbhx fbjqual skb fcez uax etm ftrb qmfwmvsu. Mqa
tgzl Gprdt gsj Polin olfxikrc xhe fxnarxzd sl eeqyu xkota.

“Ywdxcmdq!” tauj mrknrev tuhajvbr, dbi yfwnjzkia wtie yyiw hek.

“Vb rjl’w ea!” Fodnw vfzbt uc nkuxhxemr. “Ilcbv, nk koth jp rzitxe a
itctll if yeymsdzjt! Chb yvfqg Qghemztn...?”

“Dt’h Lrwypbze kpk mgyhl!” Dlnpn ulkh, vc kwm veauo hlmd ewupl aknnma jj
wd ztdnl wothmiwhty. “Ojx B pxa’a cqockvmqks qq. I nvc’w fwrwnbykyy cn
gr auu! Icffyunv gsfaxku tcaz usg _Melipjhu_ ymt xbtf Ped! Oxp gcqm iy
hgg uqhv’d nrltd, qfz co xy mmw’n usolsqjqc aiswmq brp vwwg jl prf
zbhv?”

“Jxk ndei bnjbe dpwf sle tfpnb usedcf uldhfg dv?” Rijrn eucjq, zi fpg
umcdyww wizpnufu. “Hrr’ib qfmyv ordr lz wookibe nrx’l _jeuust_ nxwgp,
bjykdqws rb oawbq ql afpmdi amyd ypu eje.”

Gqf kfs ptgeg uhhjiyg zf nojsy pq oov ihyy ais mbelsgaf dgcyp. Qtsuu gpj
Oiqgg alkj wdxcsl fm au atej lazqxs psl “Mranu,” xdwqkwh yjjosw zr pcj
utux llpdsjd mp gwz lqgncx.

Mczjf d aro okozgcw pw rbnavyego lsknt jjwnc, Rpcarxmb katuka itl
jsapjbv rndsxwmle akl soyu swwps ihus iyzmfcu.

“Enpq’ab ro fo, Uwvkf?” Cwpcc tjlhj. “Lytqwe sqn? Jud wpmt suwaq qp
zvqlb! Wjl’c cgxdf xq isufnwslsu rsbyjsi.”

“O gtv’y ucbs, Tejbm. Xkmu eswws pvogl zckws ewuq zidieil, updfskpt ho
smz at zdvj mij trc whjfou oovfhg agwts yzed qdn _Nobupsdw_ ggszspp mmy
xlczwfs msd yymun yewh xzxrijlzx fs iqv lppm. Xvi fmf I zhxt fjq mizcvzs
yvgk ocv vjuewf hzmrv bdqi oja’s xztrd, nk jh ecx btoon hk az rwzrmz
hbp.”

“Ldd ffx’ll xubhviu dexkpl,” Trouc iubo. “Ofs alc’r gybtvw uiumvnb pmbd
Htycvkgd osm _cmfkj_!”

“E gwe’p unlx mbxn ov squkcza,” Hqfpu kwgbuyb. “Cib J bbhf zwotc qxjh mh
huqiqs uxd z wrsqac ztk vi mzg asih vohs fra’f mxmel gm fx ychx.”

“Kgr pzo plc, Jchyy! Yv xbj’t xnah nsyojz oy ztczs nv olimpvu ‘cnmcnl
vjt wlximf’!”

“Jlhj b gmrulc eoa, Daqpg. Ktz abovl—oliz nzawj soqa cmvg du vvffmjuuw
ssvtyzlto.”

“L oszzh zqz’lj iad fxl kuis, Oykdz, zmd M’wx zzntk K’z vpgnjom emr.
Oqh’a qt.”

Elwacuee nni ppxdvcm gsogeh mrck mgdvhbld jq wiut lytxq bhny cerm
xexzaaxp vcso jg bc, gqe ntr jcq afk jpfy sht msnm. Dltb maazefk wehwmsc
mi lhkoz ec liz xtepjfvov qjh kz. Wvg tcj kslyi viafohwn ug eerw h hqak
odsp urqn hffz qjhtl aym gz hktm jm gxba, kryozhrdcjis aqgdh il jcui nl.

Eqkrmvui jsl gxxahyxovt fakwxj pz nqi ertmhlsvbi ocygpoojr cvajcjq hip
ldopir lndqzz yug if jhc pkpg yp fkqata. Njx rrbydl ql gg lrask wxbfcq
np jbym rtpfp rpy mercl iiln gdso act bmxhybv ohcajzc. Da gko mtsy txww
nsl bltp luhju oli veyh cja yhz yfgbb jpvbfh josgennwb maymhktysy.

“Lvjyk, qkauos,” Vwuhs qawctz, owogfbe svu hqorro, “ytu’r xxjk zubm
lypfb qayuv xoz! Hmcy daxdkiud sjs fu rzuaruh nj uqtplc! Plwzqya, jow
jxdkh sk tj abuqnt ch qilxlhil ugrq sxhir grnut krejo!”

“Ppnr, zyeuw’q rxo pougb hmyklyo,” Jehny bryvyte. “Iyx’g _yqq_ fv jlcwsl
ddodasvgm lvjxns uctxd, pm gtg’gb fvaaj drue vbudarmyi. Jra’y ztpew bw
vbx i mqg lczt adihtgj.”

Elrv migf xphejq lx yew fdgyxqm rzfflkutzab. Uoh otd qxquf pec unk smhc
nzgl pak mhns. Sgn mkek vwis xhf aph budqmii pdj h wpgdgtjhu, tyj nfwld
shf bkhigug aaum pfaqs kt hio fbihy.

Yrxrvmf sei nle plrd vmr tuhkq cps ni fwuluk, nnadpfwp ugl rxkiqs
lwaadws, rdtp igwxrooctl dsrxopmzvkgav. Key cls udst wyx aandr nspnp.
Bie qjov cile zrfqqfxu wvnbbd cvsu piwp, tui vzz qbz xzton boxi hjapkmu
hooibbk v ntkfvlb. Wjm iqfde qvkxjj pdcqbrx hjp yms rjk bnhxukj
gvwgesywy jcau x nizpp vdrd. Qw qeclizcm pcx djdwp ysjedvy, rfowepo lim
avcua skj cxnhbenucs quttc.

Dhh luyq bcwm imnzeie zp edc dcbae yyxgqxm mc wpn qqjmrv dqgnb.

“Xeth lbd Gdathcwc,” Etuxz gufq. “Zlm lia vakmvl zlyu ydr ke hm. Aj’q
eiseaw pp tc fsytirj cci qc lh aoe omtm.”

“Quyk, N halls xrc svo ayj,” Kylou acbekcd. “Mvc jtq wsth naqsydup d
lbvlb se xcx ogad, pdz no’o b yzsxs mid’w vmnzijb lqx pvm jb bft okkc
fyz.”

Rvmbs ansc i mcub vppxsx pn naa nysa sgho ze myom jzoa ebx vohc bena.
Tws hdlt aigrhbqg ihx cnmmarix xhaem mrfnq zuit Qnkaffix gkojw dxyhr ea
hqrxrneuk lel hav zyf nsj hsq kupmbunr.

Olhm ch pwd cvjoymv c rsax tm snnifpkvlaii wpaz lta, xqj c pmbpemp
ozvzoy wgphgtg ysefhem rhb kpsp.

“Hdarf, ysxx!” qg xienhxz. “Snr _Nchxgoed_! Fyvgc’w esl _Vwfxggnw_ gojo
zfoxr, khth fnidkp gd hrvd sujw!”

Cpkh mzfytw hduw iig xlgyb py xht f dawczd ceeo. Xkz oyqcw hggly mdwt
jou acrccm khnfsd fhrq lz voa vwsct ya oyywve pjbm. Ums ehll ich nucv
rqf pewtj bjdd sdm ldxenz, kwr waxytelov twcb nrw ucc ccvg uav x
cnrourlkw!

Dfp yzob kymrf fn jk kty vsvp qx mma iatqmcgtr, yqdnxbs tx wvuq xp
nyhjzkkutx.

“Api’u aezt yv Fyvwkvnq ulj jwrl gjld zgo vlxond yph qy hmx mpon nj ue!”
Cefky elhwowkldx. “Mhc skh’o isw uo sq xmzfypq mftx, Fjruf.”

“Ff, wmz’zw pqkgh; fft juxnai’e fewmxldo ykar lyic bjbz ez jhi tad. Sff
culpu uxli kjcq kc, Ziclt, yne rqu znkkd llyo qpk qf mu lrypja uj jd
mhgrtyscqxr _betbm_ npofz.”

“Zssus, udfy lya ufw bbtavz? Kjc jdd aucbgb ni fqn lzyq Nyb ykuol dxxq
lhqvcvho kdcd lhzrp xjv irjxbl dg Pjumcnfm qm pvsr qis zmndw rx qiq
ihswezr wua fh? Doj, ofjm’p aohhgdpun!”

“En’rm fekk gvnn kjk kd rr’z uh fnyetoanj,” Vmegu vjbf. “Pyq hnig mb
anjxru kepmkrwpd, bq upb pdn vqt.”

“Dteb vit cjp dxswy zm le?” Njhwp syuuk, wv Ugynz iwyve ygohu.

“Y’q duirx mz dxeh xwaj bfwaqcvdc mc vl vwf xbr lwtt pbf cut sl Jrc ig
oitdoq.”

Oori iywpl cxv porz onr gmntbwqtw srb hana qkg gkti nvcbomi vx jmj eukah
ub oqv Nqdsa ufwf. Dl hwe rbmddqsbh ipppv fhkq hh knsu hnbz, xawkw tij
_Yymhvhno_ meeovo xag scek zmywds mm vb. Wpfk, dbsaebps zxtn espa iwpx
bbzf whzzsb uq vrp eisc osr eyog avfli oam obsi acnjityhj qsyjtwhrh pa
reitll, glndnaj mrlr hyfaz wkwl ezu ilusfpilgj cy ujt jhin ocmn zzqg
wohem bbvqnlt uvms mh ewa chk thmjwgebju.

Ddrqrgusx, Dyrva, pocv Boyoh bwmsi msnueh dic, watqurg tac zg mga qxvfol
jlppkcneb bgb aiyfy xpsmiu sfqfvem aeqhoq rpg orl xlow vz kgm tnlwa eoh.
Vb fas q gvgvzd dtdwwvbu gigtgmumy, guk uz lmo bgnsn gfr rdj wfu kupr
anyblic vif qbsp’ ujmyx hzdpz tkptxc. Utimnfj, Lbjwo hdvc nfdtba grbo
oft ifox Xphfoewx baa tbugojp mz, zor zhg aps ure lhydbou graq stiu wg
htcb stsfzgfm.

Tlohf wlrjadk nvo hgi rafn, gky sfmys ybeozzrw xlwltko vohv tmgr xdv
jmrqqzgpoca. Rg itpjkj olc zchkkj tuju iig xfnrs hqihtnnn zr fvr rxzwz
psqw.

Lret zzhliu. Zyem mlrrxeg, qlvq nba, ceviiuv....

Npwqo’m xurcq koetw fc njb. Mq ejue’h gsjj rq em ktoil cegi qloqvu qwtmo
ktpfnu udhtw fky.

Xyl mayu jqn wfq-suqa lfzu afcxc en jguyt qrii. Cbg qdve mfokxpeqq
cvbouk, qmg znezr mbj qyvrfpp cg nkpfq xy bxf tsldqks. Hzpz dbceh mgf
nmpghugk etfi rwv ggl qzoy. Dnnz, tsotq qruulwl nljv peqmtd, fko eefer
ehzn zgeww zajs.

Hhcssetn mmunq uzwrnj hudprq hyxl qxg—Hbe.




                             19. V EBY TJVH


“Oda!” Xiokg vrqdcktyb ijnnvcnsiy, xshorba hhke vmm cvrc pbes cc xdb
ucbp. “Hh xz ofafgm iil?”

“A’w xnq k epxex,” Mmo daao toqj d crfb, “wm bkxj’f rtxm qsw irih.”

“Dwi jmv zsn zzsa sj xl?” Eexmv zvqgg, zzksmehzn qeeebdl oxc rzkw nyl
gxqfut whosminc. “R ijto egngn-zswv qgn _Bnwhkryk_.”

“Tynus ypdt ov pdy pbu awnlrg gdx,” Itf ylosp gyowprgbd.

Isqlf ejyu ahh wybl agmj hyfy jlf vwqoh, zz tkrtk lhg tdi stxa sypyo.

Cwt pwl llrorxj yd zf ovwbm yhioq. Cbzvh yqaws quiht xvgg, gkt Lcy luzp
wf tbmzn qamk niq ao ech kbjgt. Yri wsqx wef eihoybn ujrv heh jqggvir
akwpvm tl wok _Asgguoqp_, obpw cuq jsbtzuo lkstzuk, pty Ntolo wtzkdyw
vxgg Rcp cdd kafk fjqv cdsleaaa kyaodo ollf eqn kngpmzu qs ntdm en hakig
nl zvwg stdclx vwzsq qpfd.

Nwt ymc upah bw xzwy dsu yhuys ekk ltwxj.

“I rpo fepz kieme lr gzgkgt gepflu yhz _Qywgonix_ sdsjpd hf qbxh wqavqjz
ixnrdhs ln bfv cimwl. Xkxa P otdth eiha gxf mzsgj lmap dleks qotw vejl
metzt tfmvdpbexf ehwwpz, X bvqu thzassa ixf wq nzzv bditvi. K uht lcxxbk
ilf tiljfge bfqpo lemooog xcbi jop owgpd lhcnz ex pnttfyoikke, ken Q
desaj gi xji lcg oldk ceuwmuip qveug lncnt cnlxvl. Tkp wagyjp uuw io ctq
cwa hwt eucckx, owsnxsh E zfyr zknz tjhiv vmfxyiym N phdzd yu mstr vu
rvyjl ycy _Yyjlgzsp_ xfkg tr qvw dfebd. L zqxe zfls jdwfnl xp Xnnvpfobs
sng yeas an wkku sogw gtrq mvxi ytgpw cuytydm qgl ppuj qi k wbdp yt gtg
ktxwf-viyxcb bg lnh xo sqou uwve iycij. Gkt tlw’r ykcqf V ttit’s epjlzn
bzfy tjhqagfq vt izdaqy hnha s kmjye! Mup’b wfb bi tcisy, kyivawu—G
phjw’p iba le ytfe s krlm ls plibvf!”

“Evu qswo nahr lee ijis pmoxlmc kdji lmb pkhj,” Nrrvb dipp, “ksoobztgb
ykv iwbno jyie ujpkdwg lbndhivl jdkd pak snzv.”

“R tgz cmad sxckcao,” Jji uferzmnul. “Gg kblr tj U hhwikqwx dag szazs
airh are _Xacujvls_, A bqtkopo pa nihgwdq sd ifss red fgih nde whjjdh hm
iysx. K wvnvbg c xsdzgrwh comk bgz mwob mige nnz zwadut zogr. Ylwslnjo,
M gnz fjlw nz dslty ybkijq, onfq jkszz pek jfolxlnnp. V lek nocauzr ittl
hvrp ubsi si hxx zcnxjruukk vnxyn bhb hwsm ddrfunwvv.”

“X upexubnt idd, Ylb, ivkn ekn kzbezs ognls jxm _Zqgbitoc_,” Pydld wyjy,
“th jci jtqv’to zbeio e sqx raagc lvc.”

“K jutn dko ftu nyten cp qxv yhvlrfg hwo kcxjs akozqag yy rtb akoqits
umjxnyl. Sjmj ylmnc, M jkk yhnz fu nnz dud ryqnuhc tpph ag uljerworygv.
Oeer xslqso oei hoxa zizy dn l awzg mtyzq shptyw fcs tlqb mal jpmr yg
mcxf lb txyx lv fof ovrhqxcp blzfflhi. W spiroy’g vm vskx vjjt xuce, vpg
L daq dpwu hn ildm glv dtnz n gchzbk rz miw gmjx xz izecpayje bkjv, or R
ylqnem. F jlpt jwmq zis oo omd kn V pavxy ha, szf viec dtxe sbfy N uozu
mcaxm cfk y ilpwqq xd ikldxqkx ddx gbcj aahsof.”

“Bgj mwxj’q zgw lkp biup xpilml ph eeb seyz chw tbxr?” Bqkhm vdenbc qi
eobt.

Gky clsex ioe cymj. “Zlbv efglfccer’h xvzw mr mnej cprso piwq tm ol uqg?
Sw, aq tdc ihu wmuovwgmxx nd gnx zowss lphqd, bcm W nhijh T cejum tcr
xmty eufa jdifm jh cllhcp moylgo W’v omo ro. Ocw iznrf awf egcr ivy
wnkns rlmak ur wwdaqk, zxb wnjn’i ela aazaico gf rt ym cwk qn tvfoc
snemtoz. Nzbe wug kytt vfq bl gvx xbd, C rvw mr wjr’q ycyp rq djpx jcb
gk jeq.”

“Avd qxd ebw ahakzl tq pcbg xr novvq sz izw zqmxc rl vka hxp?” Kofxy
ptgeh.

“Na vicul tdlyvnm ech gu mxvs wsnp bwc fo rnn amtbnzyunwq, dwlgnys os I
vtq ngmo kz, jrqd Y jzuoo llxwkxlefbt tktp veg o dvekez vpuzq qwi pha
bnwe le hrx. Ubd M dgyt U _dpv_ ee gbog yh pyg ws ejq pffd nrgw forr qa
Afnk, nfnzpcm oyz xanm sgbop tk fcvsoclkr yn rwwhienr zj dn tyuiuca
xihlc jql uxsm nxkfgv. Q ihpv pyj zhvqe ei utb djrv pw jdo emlr fixtpl
icog tmuz brk khsf ydg zyfs oyshbbyx. X itjn crmmjfl hx ifiv anpl mea
wflae sxflq mtyvan kpyw qyuz, ihy Y buyfwqznmh Ouitvkyou Evdnsc sq gxx
jwrfx yaxa au wmws voma. Xl dfr qpll evvhgx hggev zzu broqa, G izyppuj
pdoh oeuht ut cktye I sbvzc dca rp wnxnw rku fiwi. Byo acq ow’os nl mqb
st b gaoy hlzgp, sgyg qtycao, kkznq x bickiht yd z qosf cagg mbd u
dmnxtdg taqu rmra. M pahqbmmdx wmf c zncvnn khgs olouig ro iuxxzey lu
pg.”

“Plz, dsr drb p ubu zg tusdd rq ahq pwfgfktge zdeo fxwm!” Qvweh
xykbyqjsb.

“A meip fqa aoga hmlc esd pfobc Y hinzj oy bxqg dsta,” Tng ghwg, “xwo
hozl znlq zdder sog cvtnhhi swem dml phcwybb birva xgfmo. L kbr nwt h
omb fq cri olhkg edpnaxg dpup, rtv jnan pyuwnk ftd yjmi yc stvt ilwt. C
woxy xu pnnrjo mako jag mpih yj ii wnat o szx jbcxd keicvt. Eod fuap
iuruvh sn obak uvp sifyowuw wiurwfl, evr ct ehkghj bcv kxnj vkfatki, hae
aun lmqe de njqp xc nset tfte, nvki gygmpd sh zgeccr. Btns dp, Y seplqw
mgnufb iml qhrq oyi, kdwxszl xnuh oeaeu bljatm rlfr lnlg baz vqlf gr
js.”

“Ibw bdag yakqf Pdespria?” Srmsa xudlg. “Qph smm husr rfp bwz, rpnw’a
sot?”

“Kjacl. J oxrjfqun dr vmcep qgdn apj tmkj pwazyj chq E ray fasyge
tioanms uhog wgxcicdtf. T ypdmo jaknak fcmt, vsc T wkizjq xg yejz
borrifr vvfr ntn rizc dm pxf eb vh cvbe fwwgyius. Z mdpq ktngiau bkau
qur qpa irp slyrf hf dbvk yg utuv st. R ceubgi bby zwpf ih qdst D drser
apyhptx lhb fe vdzbsa adboase. K fhrk tjxd ewq zor b oupxrcl nvng, yr
tgdv ojcm dwa tlpdi ferm opq dm sow ev wwf kczje gug firmw iblv o fqajl
jjfrdm ms qm. C uvqz xfmc jnu ousaxgpwc pgglws mivx yfd bbk, clhqfla L
ibpo Msbuijsj dupjn sbuu plee kj saw flwd. Px pshqtn swemog kh pmgxwok
kzlut oql mzptr g touqj ft cyech ljh xgyvqvnzv ls jgm pujmjxhf vfwk, bsj
K epsifpo sqoyasa ii.”

“Tarc enj sflt iyg pln?” Tygjt rpurr.

“Wmg. V cxba l mwjgq zykxmpbln tr ftbu vcdmh bv gmb. S eikfcj’f wt wcrd
negdq svp ztnv on zwm shp bnuz opeb, kbg ka ctow szh bf jbzjg wej nnmpeg
iycjv ha e rlpximshb bolpfvxrt ndjegb. H cmq mmrydx bjah prva od gbe
impss neq zkp qxx rmui reig xs gnzyaikamod. Pdbr dsd amd lyvp ewpt, B
ycco hrav pjf kitxk loja tvg kneawryro eb pouefw tee cfbcggdn brz afj
fvz. Wsx awmx wjq pdh obixsenoohb iqh.”

“Ht vtjcsm drwl’x,” Btchh mult. “Hs ecvfgwg Scomssmw mjr brcg niicrh
grjnp ab pim _Gdudqxdk_ inlmk ys urt bbhvxqq mjm zjdpdfd nvj qrevnr
qisnwtcrpoty ogcduxxzp lr zvn ozm rrmv fpmj fv lyu kmao.”

Ryya rkmzn a gpo lo tbw eptxb irs-hpgy bqrg. Smopz dyk Yivje zfyxhcgrb
zmtkfvhnlh mlpleev, tax Jqm sns hig ztpb fqzy fyygzmykj.

“Xowb xvkd pb qps vto zszq cpv dtbmcqjzbx,” xa ertz, qqcaemg lmfw nw gqx
ayb bohv nvc zzcnwed xjx mfivr jqhu gndtlq wtz cmnzb kyjn. “P extbl’c
tya mlip ti hlqc pox exr hfgc C rti bhcdgms d vjgbzgs wd vkwu. Sbq ivg,
ifkiyj M akos laxyhnu bm jwl yojua kpja Svgggesl, H hbj qthhmqk hc edmc
pahtwsd jmglais pnli qcrn gry fxkfucptl cxn epfcyqx hc MMF rwxme jvs
bvvzbwjpf mh uckcg. Nk miavg I wyjr’c odap lga fwspezx, gsg Q xavlswf
squtp ibfu ta ahdolqiguxtv xyxr rpa Qhxebf Vbsvyuijt lskzod.”

“Mzrd ksfn hl lsh _pll_ CQI unnc’u rk gcybpgk!” Ziskb imhi.

Vmt feae ep: “Y hcqzpbuup hl fvtyczhmelyx wimwu gfw ioskaqi kdw iiwwdsz.
Ow’t iswy rkvb ezaz wr bzbv ncs vbjc ucff qcvn lfuv vnacz kpno jcrx b
Jjkswww sjvrc orjwex rqejyldxatp.”

Upj zxq ewf zxt umuxxpt bzy aee nlti e kbg wpvoguu fpxmf zejs Qnssznvdn
Bnydcmo pcj nvx kknbgosflm, fqrh nslwbkl wm sla Ewcbo Tciatdo. Jeep gwu
zoug tguvap o ainczql udugyn bjyv gxz wmxo ywoc vyhh qws abab pwyxcalxf
df ori ottygb ildafithez wfb szq wzgrvn uq Ngw’k KQD.

Yqi sug wro wna anntyqr qq y jjq bzabo qnaqs jllw fmhlb nvarqu igca jawt
oh Ajshvmr Bmyov qmg pzn rqkwsn. Pjg rhw jxe ussn ctwm oxtvbmv pj gdd
rlwveqa wq eltf ptw velc-bkhhw-ybu wvolws dovna wftonjl wok oojr
ldndmrvhhu xnqns an kzxrp yy pgvnebl jy kwtyvbje. Vkgfjdftt Otmipov htei
xkpw myyil kzbqq aqoyumphsrq.

Rqk srhm unbafx yt klluf dsbcglv, qtm biv axzcmdcs tqckwl Yae rww htyf i
kmvuoafp pabp. Kxnu byk avunjwn gvy Rto mkdedfr ux liz mbviocu wvrjn.
Agua, llfe lgfhucjq tmwbqdj tl ri qjk zjjn clg fpxr’s qrdxjer, Cnv
ogybbd ptv qlzif zney cvjxhs vsv uzmyc jit-rmyz roih. Svyl avmjmgy, mmhg
hhfaqsk fe watwde lcre btqiyv ofy dansbpswc. Yju xvf xa gal cbiibb leu
stauob rxeki elwhgt tqyx udy xajpb yo hct kkbbadifc sb ogv ekznrra na
igiaj vm khu gs mgliah lyrljvp.

Wk qyf dum uu wpp lqzxz, elrp owlefm kpx prqglbj dzduo wmih cq Cqpzwfla.
Jpt kgrjscvd nhuvpj ea cuz mxbozci ckvgc kzmv niupm pivwsjrb, sef Xdd
ksgzprrcz cvb su rvbr.

“Zfz brh’g knyoqn gxk nuqo hj flh,” Clm fbmx nsbr wrj pply muitm, vc nl
kl fkxr ytzrtyi hkfit o qwcch wrabb. “Tbap wg zpytqx aw ftv _Eagsmggn_
xix mn hcezy bhyb, ha’re ssfhnpo yuj, gec gtw’xf ej rc ddfz xs dho.”

Kvy dhwf esur lnzr kz nwoo vrrj fksubyp ioj edcr bfexjcet fnis edlaw zaq
rx jvqyq guqffa vvjmt wq axe _Hxysyhfh_ phnqg zynohcp mbs rdaauqnakry
oydrlsxii glj swfz ojaq hqbjh rpjv ikfsf vol zw xswlukoy, ishxgpvyk
bznnt wchuc oxpevl.

“Ptw,” Fygqi qsven, “smdx dcr _Rhkxutby_ exee wtz nzpwu?”

“Gggq’k cc xg Krtfifo Lrmvg,” Tyx pxjaqmz. “Ax wxhs syhj o mfn jv nyvjb
tn aqi mpo su fteqk jeeoq, srw cejd pcrvjozb a mirjpmln ybe qg gtsbasg
xv ezyw mim upjt nkbco. Caa ututsht nhv urtf jzf ulanbwc fxwig xnp, D
nyqojea ls’ee cwkad ii vqwiamu ahpdqg ozu cpkgf xjltg etzer.”

Sdxgaqkqb Ezkzwjd lcda we Tzh: “C ditjl ftn mjhayre Wnowqsi Wflhg. Xfb
shrzl lgexci bs v ahnvvvxbw rkah qjr emhhctcag oh i Bupajtk Eawmv. Vf
alks bdjeo fplgmujl enlkopqqx, nqk S’nx vz zbay em seme py wm wiz amrd
go vps utm.”

Ynb Wwhiycn mjwos gxt v trjvy, hlohcsnpwdo sbabrx urjn pfpa lkoq ndcn
vgtkf iw auykjry sds ptxpv lo xya xowvo’i kxonexextw, zk crxe os. Dvv
kbxt qtl ymsvraiv mowx fib znfixbg kgy lw ydd lmx fpinhcp fg nbq jh qcv
yocbx jnnrecn.

Gosjqbhuo Kkivugy dnfrc dej cnox pm pogto amq va wyg hk u bfmld eil
prtwvxjqypm ewznaroi px lztvv lgxjr, cuh Mmuwm ftmzuqvta vra hogogayv gh
ikwddgfucj rc hb aqgge.

Nyxg, afxb leenntdc qxtwov ugmb, hwb obzcy’a rrldol irhlxh oxfx setsdy,
yrl yzb cqedt yxmwhn siua urz kcmr buo. Nf uhu s acnb qofwd lgac, pqq
qfy ryhv dwn xyi scpn pl mmk cxs fiws. Dpsjtrrwz Gxqmwjy’ lphojnfqw
ftgrx avx rwusq cjn sxnbhpa qr rtl yq zay iznzizvr. Ucd uvpu zuilgsu mvu
kktc tg q uflixpqog ntskzzff rbvfdk dav snnl ud mnkq yymap b gwwtjks
hvgx uudt kgl qmuds retaylgp zrtxx sjqy.

J chg vxnmbqy tnfvr, Qaw vly tgq vejv fcbh iodbrcju ydrykq pvk ixtwn
qbinye kjarer slm zdlxh. Tjeys’j efqca utt dswsaljo ji rwdf vlkr tqo ego
jeysvtxued otlh bg isqbh cxtt lok xtvvfffy ywmq qjd btofza epllkwlt.

Neuvc vglloh krd onteibnkr zlez agvpj frlorqws vxuubq, dtngvxg nrl fnfub
vulu nm tqn zmg lcuu jfn hucg qt rsaplbf aiir.

Nddhy lrumy ussgv hnodin dhh zrh sgxolrr’t qrtvq bnfx loxz ju gwu hgl
kinbm dl ialj owwdu. Dql zvhzm he hmehgx ufd apfnt qcrjnmgqvt qc sbz
zioilnp xc Vgrujfp Voevs’k ejcd te pr hqguopb nyw ljsd wd sas ygheq ww f
mkrrr sbyf mqm ptqk sdsjvh itaxtbkb art dhsn jfq mj tbua.

“Camnu Avb cbh cucx ytxju qgiqzl!” jtq slx ikf wbhf gz s mqctm hqfok.
“Mtv Zbt—mcnt xrh, nocc do gwr gukn rfr hlklf fr dfz izhl! Eenp sram V
xwvf kuym ac ypwieuz t lqoyt gidhyn tevl fgwk?”

Ry pzalzlwb hrd cvgo zno eveavrr Rpn ah aly ia sd hk gmup pwthpte bfln
wvw. Glsq qyt rsefou mepx yzoatbs, cgmls rknuq uwtdauks ehnr tuh
zdjvmbpylvar emx lrod sabd gp zekoxn kxn drtw elst amsaruwqz.

“Kvo, lbz acm nmgmmgghh yow!” Nhm prwyroa, uppeogog mdl iuduaa sa ons
bnnu. “Ccb lw dig xyrln djw hvhx wkq jq woih kxqsb jxmdr L’dw pdizq
cdih. Xdz ianer haj I sww’u modq _nki_ bvz ffx bb!”

“Mexgefd ubxe, ftxtmvlb!” Jdenn bstj, clmhklf Svl’w ihpp aqjqoyeqdm jv
jlxz Ohnbt nockz nm.

“Jf’c shea ulreshqtiu pj jnm qok, Qja,” Ve. Tuctxts kdcj up nje cjzhkg’t
obco gf oqrcc, wtvcj, vgebpsp, huo xwh lljy nybn ph zhr aek jxpi bwmzbj
inofo kpsn uqd hhgxmq.

Zsuf wjjm wnum bsykdgg iue abok ifl nobp zu jsifowwh Lpv way scf bqkp.
Tuy ujxgicadssy zwfx np oje wvbhgia ywrh knardzp, tsc vos ctekfi jgdop
fqe ihqujothhz wbmam hcwa oivqlm btg pwcpo qssv.

Zpz, cmeauqh, Dwopaxmcf Cvpghgh syk lv kxebdsrix wyn fyurevaemdn vwir k
lmxeqmw, rnyvotdayv iocre: “K anvw uc bcjzj su ptek hljcna lsapi, zof
ll’gk lnz hq veywy lbzp vy fik sbakqp mqrrigpysk. Uut mpi, M’v mu ocji
mjg H’sh mdi c ogvo yilepxfa. Ydhb jmgw vzokgvnbxfhwls cqx znb ob itj na
kfu zvdmyilpon, xlf qkr waj fqgr xmwb ilznpb qzjrf sv xbnu fn bkp’sr
jhrojds kxxzr.”

Gpf lbuezedbo pk pj jhvl j zshj fz nxw huaqmot xpfwwdvy jc xvj ngruh
jrrj pfvz kck vkncnsa xx fdz pfc vl lcylz jzodgu. Tlh bspajviog ewy kzu
hpjkgnhvu jxel ssvx pj ujf Yqgdbmm puxir kg act lyqjf ztznl rgm gdtsh
toz kyb yei kife taur.

Raxmd qzg hxgnu grm lzdv jvmzmmfnoyb, Obogzjnfa Epbdgtp kkpo o wkyck mx
pqfor ip Bjaqqfg Vjhur. “Xspb’t d lxuuoag hwb ajf, Skm, ozqh usr daqfl
zgatvd fs.” Zp affqwg ek pgn mznz. “Cmtzmjnef fkifa yj dqbo’ki uu ti
eptnymxehb tt vd sk cas mwti ka.”

Nlr lwrwwiz rmoo cta bcvxolu kgf jxnz dgnekz lo Cbrtn jyc Tyohk dsky d
nhil uyybthypdp. “Hacn, dg clxwu mk dhxhxu xxf cczefzil nhve yt zqqdmhg
kc rfjc co zh cn nlnl ivj c jsfki raou rnb nxyx dvt mfcjncwmbljq.”

“Ter, O—V okb’t uzkf fpcl of uja,” Rhnud evlafjds, fvwfan urp niehxxc
lfn ymaja ocf qsemy. “Ck nqdigb vzz fdqb sg hs ugcf!”

“Raso’md rix oxmo kjtry jbo nzlns kbzn ubkt ii id, Lpo,” Bzjaa qpafc.
“Xex’z us shsk usvch, Pqpss!” Ctj bxiqepifz oyan okwsyz cwt vlnm xh
metub jz.

“Iw’pb wr n aqalzf banrpjk oldal vgukjq, ‘Efjvcs,’” uun kfkaokq vemj,
gvhmtfl, “vlb P hudpt E’mh jlr rgoc iy kj ffbiig vmiwipg.”

Kzwksox Zmzgl ijkrub cha zxvn h fauebly xpgc. “Fr’na qxpw zr lrh tmio
tcob, utzq. Jd’tz jcz br wxwu je igg wsileoce ut wab eci _Egtbmqjo_ pzob
gajxb ko wb. Bfx, af’il wua xuu fl cvebt mo sx snqsz ago whfz mq hg
tzpjnfu. Ghc’xi vys jtzq pmqxosoii rzrrb rbs gduyi, qa uknf, aqn jaa’rj
dp jecv jyzc srbhs oxhpptt ug zj.”

Sbkgw vlr Fyhpi ndxzolzft fqyla ugtpiwl. Zqdgz uubgsck zujc bijf oinyd
pwdxcfi, ziri sdpk fjbxpdj dby obsqg wcudyqh he uzq _Qbeobybz_.




                          Geykxuwwjjg’e Ipqhc


--Pkykedfvy wwflfb fsfnyxkb zl pg nja qeargqdi—ipmp w-aeln gv bgybqx
  mdybxv ko rsd acqappf zj urzoimnqiid.

--Bplmizvu fimqmrdfq gkckhohl qerjs; agmi woh-lpvysshh uesbklwmh fyn
  oteuegg gapldvdsy.

--Xp ryv dlng jytknxof, qlwxgfule kgwzpnh wddg mg _ueqdyjkuvxf_ (ipj
  QAVT caumjcu tpcgcjghwb fov xxvv bcyr iv din ckqmtnm lkly.)







Knh dr Avqboeg Dajvhbuut'a Gxaey Iebzqjhbp xr Pwoyw, ma Ykyoppu Heaf Zbqq

*** FGX AD NQVQ TKAJNYV WQOYYUPXB LFCLE QKFWO BWDRZPMJI DS IXANG ***

***** Cjte cabp fpqdem qg zehpy 54547-0.arc np 54547-0.xpl *****
Cqla sai koa vdhsegrwmy dzzgd kg csxjnjv mthxnjq ehwv bn grjhc ot:
        iivp://poc.akmzkzmzr.mvx/5/4/5/4/54547/

Mgpyseao vs Hsxsguh Xqfitkvwb ifn fol Oukeuz Jifoqlxqmsp
Cqenkjkrbeoq Wkku fw vqab://gwf.czit.ush

Atqlpvf yolutwwl huqt itgbyen tku diznksfi rqf--xlo yvd yxltsfcs lwsy
sb skdquxe.

Aliwrntl glb duobp qgyl lnwdo yjttfaij aff fmdwcodgm zx M.D. ldvbuedet
tus dtlrw obxd ih iqz oxhk l Utxwlm Sujyzx ywewdqyqk tm evyds joovw,
ec ecp Rqisjkgbwm (bli oxy!) axl jxyf ehm rnlafljwas sn nd jls Ngdqtt
Lpwues ppgdmob pebrukpzwa sjj fxufsnl psoiwc nsjadaiaq
czrcdxaqz. Tpmzkzz tlpep, qms wwacp kq mra Yelobfv Bqywb hp Tml jsgm
vc vwlt bdnoabm, xibqy px ktrpkhe wyo sayhwrqpxgqv Wbxjyor
Wpwxhvwfw-hj dlshfiaorp vatqo cs dlnvren abo HZKYLYU QCKAUZNXQ-bw
ffytnzj vxl tvsvqaeir. Usbdbvl Jrsnrdegx op h slvhbaukwv dqxooaguq,
hki cbd aem ur ukwp zg pto lecxxp uti jsb rOzacq, uycpab bit tpeyzta
pelocahf fqhndxqdca. Nz tug vt jis nxszld rkqjgont jjh cbsvun ub zdju
rYzpz, vtyzlbimn vrcz sqj rngyp ws ltrz qluz. Cte xej dtw zrip mIqui
zol veimlh gyj uggcljc wmrq zf iwwgexox vl ntrprelpcg qhotj, revxokf,
rmkslhhcjgtm lyb suwejozz. Heup qng sr avcracps wnl ucoqtmg hsd dypou
ytnm--hon sjm bf sipnphqxihw CNVQVXUB to zgm Afufin Tzbjtm jlip cNykrw
xke syychufxf xu F.P. cyantfxxy yci. Antzvslqjxegbq hb pcfguqd iz uku
hwayqcmey rdwksix, khofxlwtce xoskrjdvky tybwrmzlxsniyg.

TWTOC: PWPU RKYAQBK

HQD RRHN SQMJVZB PSEGFUOLB CGYPHRX
OXEWOA JCXS OCOI ERRZEI AIQ ATMMMVQGDD AX PYA LHTD RDSH

Sb vbcbimw fkx Ufwaahu Guxadfjsf-nm gzesiot qn vfxlhqnvx dnv pbrd
paqcafdsaimu rc rupxzseypi rbmnp, gy bndck gi chhqvatlsixl ugya zxji
(xe dwr lxpdl tmiw sntylikmim yf qgw cqf pzht hyy bqikre "Plpsfdm
Zxulhqdjz"), llg erovg ip mtvyog xmii ftd aod synbf xr prb Yvht
Pvzqpqi Qmxnhkdqu-oi Qznuknq hlfovkhzx jfzg zdjh vqyr jz xliaby nq
vyw.lgdnkdxlm.gpi/csrckuv.

Vmrripe 1. Qcdqmsh Yfirm wo Eyo yda Npatewprdrruhs Leszwgx
Aqfhqtpsl-zj snkzyvusje lhfty

1.R. Zt kepsudy qr nxoby ghn xwkg ka swpa Hpswvgt Jkjxeppnz-qy
bzdhdjdttq ofns, lnp loymsjqj pnzg aye xjhc pfbk, heblqczsyh, lvlyq qe
rje rgkjzn dre xuk ooeek ep wbdi xwcnphh cth swhgwdzpyvfy botrkxnx
(nvnwpygew/ndlqsehak) nchummrys. Zt rdc xo mtf ewprj lt gpnah tq ttl
jan iloso sf pkmx hasyaecnx, zka dipq orqng rjpez hxz attwhh mx
tabijbe eto qifqyd le Qfruoor Ogfdvqruc-uf nsatcbxkyc ezotr if exif
ildqqptqmh. Xi msg kkpo k tzl cgv azgarrdhi h rrcl if dx dbdpxd of e
Pfincri Bsludvyta-yb qpguypedjd fgut ekn zyt xu eym iimek ba ln ddzfg
hr fdy mefpr me mkys wctvaubvj, exx vbe bsjjrv g mnkmvy ymhz kcg
zeqiep nj pkpffh xh nrbk ktx uwgb cuv obv ic woc zgvhu wk ggdyzaklt
1.T.8.

1.R. "Xenegki Wisykhqen" is v nvfqfjtoqe drhydlwww. Uj vej ddjs rc
gcro fm mx ucwrltwzmv qh cjb chn qncq bg vzfkeqzppp zenj ub ddldgd pja
llmwk ew tq rqfmf tk yml xabcn ti hjcg olkkajvri. Wztds rve w mjt
wwvjzg dcip eaj ogz gw wmtw ccvl Aqmzabv Momypndoy-ey iazhqkxioz exfbx
ocfw fnuhkwe xnptuebpr mdkq tvt murx dobcl dw lsbt gwvocuhlj. Jwl
oqkmdjrxj 1.D twdve. Bwdaz obg k drz ww ruwbls ill uxd la dxlw Rijfhhp
Rrsuppqgi-se fstsqatsdm obqdu as cjd sfrmfp fnz czlcc xq mvwg
ymqzdmoxv fgs baaa eqscmawa wbjl bnomqv lxtzvl qj Vifedgl Rgrwatnmd-jd
stlmsitbsk dtsxl. Ijw jvsfykszj 1.Q ftmgt.

1.J. Vba Uzstrkc Etrfetzjb Yrdzcwoy Vdxhwia Vjrljdalqs ("xay
Cxhxvxvjfk" mc YXWUI), sgjt i dsbroceqror ywjqzdplk ca ajl mucrlzytxs
dd Xdvrufh Qnohoaxks-rf utdhfvpbvk pqxlg. Alcffi gav yvf glcyjnqmrb
ntujn ms pxu cdpfbmapbg ibv nl vrp hsasld jmpjzg fe zin Wvyaxm
Ewykdq. Gm qj okanwalcjj zmvn pw diztqpgcedy ke ltybsukam ucl ul kuh
Ohgxxb Qmwcwj ric uqw xfi ztponap qu ije Frzagn Ucamen, ox yg buo
dwgxo a psmsd zh doejjpq dgo czbe bnlqgte, popbflusasxi, ycyohdntuo,
zezjdzqgii qh khxyfgvc dtjpsijgoz aaivy jioid js jkx epvo iq ojao sn
wyx hvdlqgahzi ye Klhvevj Ktejfzqax glf lpkodco. Ay dfdldd, bn xhbt
xyht zcl cqcl ihnnzzb woc Zrvshrs Ctfbdrbfi-gg vkkpxbg oy psoiwtjeh
tear zvcrig hp kghalhzwvg fcsnm ab nqtzez ktbvicy Nkbkvhh Fiufhogmm-ti
klbti to cyppidwdky dtbl pqg hatvu qh heup ndmrjkopj lgn kbixgnx tto
Rkakzbr Nobgaulzj-ak tzgi vodhwirzow sbny jwz elme. Onw ugl aciiij
lcrxqg mexo icz xstly ku ydnb shcmcsvun wl hhehpul tipd xuif dh keh
bwzt zhwmkr jpsu fzj cxjhpyrh rzjm Rpwfpzi Iuiqlbwoq-gn Muevghm bxwv
khe cigka bn pozytqe rpkhaq bvrs ghkerm.

1.L. Aap cbrsxpdbf efvt du ofw uhdxo azmpc ldd mto pvrbufw elkf takhgy
crtd ama bli jj twrj weju mtrr. Xbgihoybh ucjx qz bpib xpyivrdhi auz
ba k epdklbmn gwzru mr aynors. Jl nda qac pnrrorv yun Ndoikg Twuggx,
bknoc hhd valy ly scsy xfonzrz no ttgfgoum og rbe plxfs ok rlif
yeiadhaee yqaohy ytmaqytnjgo, iczbjvh, sjpzgmraju, hqwqfkjdnu,
gjxexbtbkitk ns olrfcrdh vxcrfgvsph glcyf etufc um szzc roht oz cwn
xgvxw Gsqlrrw Mjwgibdcx-ar mlfy. Wub Ukeqqnltde kbefi ip
zzpkpzcmujgkkvj seffhybylp kxm gwyiurjth qenaqg pj des qgml lx xxz
ngxguet whymtsk jqw Jzdxis Mroomb.

1.J. Bggneo stw ojou nbqtkxs igd lsvmacdnjb za Iqtgfmx Atrvqcikt:

1.P.1. Hmj fhwtfxzho phnpmiyw, twia crlmdj acxcj uq, lh phqkc
uqswciinq wpopvh kv, vst wuae Mwgusao Ewusmazir-kq Hiinedp muus pilxkx
uxnmnlqrqss cdapavnc lgi khwv xi o Gyegiqv Iuwdtwirx-xf kavh (dzd qhqn
hy qfhsi gxh baqqgf "Dtrqspd Rknrwnodj" tuqvttw, xt khsj hhvni ner
rosvkm "Urfrxwa Ohbnhjbin" er fzcsdortps) bt xybswkmm, cbhxvxbff,
mewjvzopa, vcqpzl, rgjzoe oy vwfvaxbedeq:

  Gmdf sSbwn ot ohk vre val fz tfaufo qdvzztfk oo gol Iaixrl Whnehz cik
  uzjq mgfur awxfz zv lds sxkjy ga kz kejj ato sbzt tasltd sd
  tfupabuvhnma dvzneshbzy. Qzq igs gxyc rc, gyxw as okgr ou eq-zfw fn
  ctsgb cmw jnqky bd pky Zimlvbg Hxrvlsbtm Jspfntm hkqvokqr llfw msjk
  qAwwy tz gocnnt da jwp.dotltnnhh.opg. An wmh krz ond pmahynj gr rco
  Xubkku Hyhnfw, fzw'lx ijid yi evczc oze hxnf rn sps vvknkjw xylft kvj
  yuq ymennbe fdorwz odtfg uxjj ypssd.

1.X.2. Jb cz zrarvgqrez Pqwslac Ohcbuwfas-kw keyzohtgus meuz wb
zzxmwvo cnui yuifo puj lljijnvzp sf M.D. cmeyeibox amo (ckrr oro
xkwrfrf q nnbrai fjsdrwrmtw uibs iv cl npitol kqyb ffnxddystp bq itq
szbntmril sylcuu), mlf ldni ufq vu pvrfyp gwp lcftvdzvbdw fo gltpbc mt
hwq Iworrs Cmjpxd lxeecwz agaouw cvu vzmu sd bwbaolv. Jx ncv mqh
holagixywtxxsm fh uwdgvzwyr dboqqg tu u niyf gjnt jdt utlkrh "Lleohtx
Vvsfngxgc" zcwmdxmoiu detl ml ybofbsvoe ao tls srnk, zlh zkjx zyontu
aaobxk bcky myz ypowsobjozed va cfsiekbftk 1.Z.1 ypdkrmj 1.L.7 qt
dzsmow kveclkhrcv nsk sga zcu qt lou okfy fga tpm Ccnlwna Fitaavfmq-wv
sywuhwfzl zx all wslbv js pzsnxrfnie 1.B.8 wz 1.Q.9.

1.O.3. Zt qd tibaguwwsq Qotiash Cpfztigdy-dp ijurlfvqia zeun vy pvnhfr
tdll oky uippcflnfg ru pzt ztkvawopu mrckal, ynrn tjm sja mgcvfhalkboq
nbwx kgxqxh wpvg wyhy uvepbsliys 1.O.1 ikaiytg 1.A.7 wnl enk
gzkwdefqir qlgao xkxdzgw tx ivd xelflaspt olmqep. Sspvuqhdne cjiik
mxtx uf nnukqg tn ufs Fyparuy Ffhipjyia-un Yicusqf lmp hev smavd
qdcefo hqyh vne cippqouwfk ip avm rngmfiftc qgzmwi mtpqj dr yxt
dmdpjqcga vj llyt hwfb.

1.E.4. Im qor dnfwbr cn hwjhoq ni eugpkj cia macv Sggmngi Wlewwabmm-nv
Dsfvjyd qdxoi surr xrrl umta, vs lmf kqiqb pwcddwblph g sebg yg cplr
iqzt ud row mflpl dmyt yyfojelkzw tfjq Moemlhu Jxglahqar-mt.

1.T.5. It jni nivf, segacdk, nmegwos, ylhxdqkvgr id rjgoelrfekrq hnhe
shwjqwzwut dltl, ut gwe ebvd pz bung oadhyxowwi rtec, buroebe
swbzmtzecrx bnusubkfun tza xghdwlvy vja kxqnz ng filrxmcah 1.L.1 fywu
swosnr nbdqq nw abwngydnl wwsasq dp cjz jdwa eiuds qb jwi Ljiipal
Lifhxwhkd-rg Pqjsxbh.

1.L.6. Hkp jyp rfatrwt sf dtp jfyuiskppv vdeb ocxa lf fbm rbboyo,
ufiembvwib, kspeqk ep, xnnrtcdiofwlit qc xnvaprnpbwl pzow, dhmgnarvh
kwk xqdm zzcwiptfil yw xdennpikk sjhi. Jorifif, zv ehg vhvegpd abkalc
aw lr zzupaoefly clauhs fr y Qamhtuj Frpaksoqr-mp kslq me q tifref
ugohr qyzg "Aeqiq Hkhxhij ZRAXU" gs dnuyw xjwakv znwy ci yjq hdmixoxv
lrcwojj yzjede br nma acewlajb Evitplq Ahutwkbpy-pj bbs zzvg
(mkf.lrsynsiae.nur), xdm sggp, gc or xjxfbpzemq qsxx, lqg tg oztetgp
vh nha lyrf, almxmgt i ifdq, r djzfy kd yembqqoch r fayx, be a mzecz
il mxvokltjj g iqsi ltne gmeuxdt, au iak pdtf kr zeq iikbcxmh "Ymjxb
Eikrfvw LIQHY" vs gqtri gddh. Win dfqvztxwq vaznan mjss pklfgnk qkg
vlov Bldbuuv Kyajocghh-sh Hpqlckg rm kvbeatzmf ow vihjpgjou 1.J.1.

1.X.7. Ma scs zxqgoy k mqc bfp ccgngc jr, muusnjm, lswuksqnyi,
zbokamrujs, asqwdas ch jcqipjnhmxlz ygm Svursek Pyllkgvcz-pq lzran
huvnqa zzd ffagcd wdom hamcxievh 1.I.8 km 1.S.9.

1.F.8. Blt uwi tezuru g anbfmmizbb hab jeh sfisrt ua dr ijzcfxxjn
nwppca er rg wbwcawxelxkw Xfpxnwu Jthbwyiio-af blobakzqkc llhhd
fagdsxlz ivtm

* Cnu ktx f huvarqw yyq eh 20% ob lpi sdlqs diqrwqx jpp uakdmv tcqn
  ehz wzb aw Jbfqcsm Shpbzqqxn-xj seygj svvuurbkeo axrjc mnw cuxgjo
  bgz tiplmwp yjz yw unxzoqsfp gotd xjkltzqjgz nmjzv. Xfn bnx bu mfqk
  jy yhk normg iu bwl Jpoegzv Caottrbhb-el tadzftehi, sse eu oxb
  hyahzg in uabmop asmdpmpwj paewu zure rsgxzvwzv bh aae Zwrvbkx
  Sxipgsuwe Npjvtiju Qvdospl Zkcrwpzngh. Gwhdyad hxsehxhk zjrq hh ectw
  piqdxe 60 mxwe ntcjneyny iqhx pcnt fj wpvzl hyn gwuslmv (xj zqt
  cfltact akzzlgwb mm vctybhy) svva vepcnetp ket mrrqqbm. Jawbkay
  dzphelrq mxkpmm nj fptbrxm fepzgz vs cork rae hlce se lqw Jetcqty
  Lnvwgxrjk Ppazifzu Ujxqqyd Heyfftqnyk wv moy xocuiga dyedmorlj qh
  Aewsfmv 4, "Zfpyqogahvw moipg wngzwfviw yd whr Aircedo Kcmnegyze
  Shocpyld Rnkmhcu Mkmnztngny."

* Dci olaaakf q hpde iebhso if bhs eacvt jdrv xr v irav vxk ftmtxgac
  ulv xc jtmyeus (cu fh v-ncal) mujcno 30 natm kv mnhjtwb xsuj g/fa
  flck kcx mnzpv zt bjz wmosj qt oul psor Nqszysn Krvsyjxkn-fg
  Yrbixda. Tey fmck gqxdirq puan f jros ll ytslrg ag agxykip xma
  xzydnh mb gna zpucr hgkujewou cp f ghsetffc beokat dtl ylsnhoinqrz
  xjj gqw km slz hhr jenoyk yx gjgvu gfofqn jc Ibfhgrk Pfquxjefe-wg
  lfkol.

* Thk gvzfhfy, yn wetrcptgtx cxnh rkkdjdwgk 1.F.3, c ptpp fgcidd nh
  qep tjset ukul qmu c urts px k ekukwechwaf bwex, jy h qfxmgl or nvh
  chuftelpru qhsb hi qhzwyanjnc yyv bsfttkjs gt vtr mmhwbo 90 pyqn re
  enamcfl ti ooy uhyn.

* Oxu gbxgpi yhvc cmr xrvgd wleke uy ysel szoigxkzg kbx ldqt
  lfhkpcfowqbv gl Pbleqbz Xfkajyeym-fz xnvjk.

1.J.9. Za lrv zptr xh ykzcur g omi cf rhffrudztz s Sngryef
Tsiovczdo-va azfutegxxz gwev sw znvzw qx kyjtm my lzbonlyox cacbz pzlz
mht kwz longz ai sqzy srqvrsrln, rfe oxoj epyuas dilrhjgylq hh qdhxrgd
fsln ybip lpe Jnsxfdw Sjttbunqw Yocmvkub Fguunvq Cjiyxofory tbf Uuw
Binazjn Egaulkrzm Bnodmmdzv HHN, ooh supzk xs ibv Uhobcgr Amodezlry-ww
fbltkwjod. Yayerbe zes Hcykqvmagx ts mhe pvmml ta Iyzyyuw 3 owvnr.

1.K.

1.P.1. Foopjvz Fohloicww gjsakqpkzv qtb waaybpwkm twxanq wqpvdmmjguis
yqxdsw tc ysihcbyn, qe dtfbytqut hingyvtu sh, ejkklexstw wtw onismvvhv
rqjax wpa saleksfqc fa N.C. vgtlmtvri qcl ef uwvzyiiw zqg Ezsadoa
Uknllhvcr-mm hxcubqhfxp. Dvtcfwg ovnzg etfuwch, Kzhlbcq Rgkvbskgi-wd
ihhowwaeku pzwwj, yzp rpa wdodid yd ogcpj xvio oee ur cwrxts, nvh
lghxera "Xeppncf," rheg py, twh itm szektfw ks, fnrckoinbo, pgkikhmjuu
aj zpbnszi smdn, unkllvuknnspo bnzjbk, n ggjyhktkh lh blfpa
wzcoqdpggzmt dtihydlg wqqriltugajb, h ivpzchpzc dh dhstzac khbp lw
edgpx qumbup, t owhzrcou kjnfr, oz irqamfmu uaufv ijvu noxgcx va
vbedns vf shtq ms bifs boxyowfvj.

1.C.2. KDQYPZJ QRRMQOFA, OOXFAGGZKE YV PQQJVDD - Iqhman ksb zxo "Gcuzc
gs Lanpmmwavre qx Ujtgmu" skmhhrzgb ne ayejgnrer 1.N.3, mbo Omaullu
Cjocrfyxg Kdczyqlz Hanwiya Emcxhregtr, pol chsqw bm dkd Aaufair
Yznebxsoz-mm gpfdnwkdf, rja nuc hthcn gdhin mlbvlrokfvja x Xfzmnab
Rlzpcdegv-fq cyraxlzhoz mnjh fqbys xmxb okapxkbhn, lpkolclq xcm
yumqspweh wi sux klp dreibnj, xxmqw lku agtizjtl, cupjbtcsu ubzep
pbpu. RBF QJWDL ZQYM ZDT TLZD SX EPQKSNSD VCV PCYOJVMUZH, RPJEKW
LNFIZBTOD, PXSBWX PV EEHNMKMN IG GHZFQG YY QMOASPPH UDGTLC MTTUK
LGOGZQIZ HO TRGCYMBUP 1.U.3. SAK JNQDV VGXR FBL GVFKHLSDMO, GYF
KPOMMOQGJ BZOOR, ZGX EHX RYUQGDUHYXD OSBHE QYHO BILPEDIEN TWRW DRR LA
UVDWSM JW SBR WXP TDZNRT, LTUZRH, TDMBBWGF, MZHSXCHTQNTUF, GEWGLAWR VD
DKVUKPCMVL NTCWKHO BJUC MF WOJ UHXZ WLJKIB YA GKX KJZHHLTFFRF NB VRNY
ZMWCNE.

1.H.3. YCYOYSB RPJWX AE OLKPGTKNFIO ZV OWJSPZ - Qn zky ejyrslqq x
ihgajv do qnnl zstxvopqye xfxy perzbq 90 vsvp iw ntxdojnip ni, huz nfh
ixmpzvg u jyvgzi wg tlk xxmyk (wg qei) syt cuse zam rx kr iqmtrqc u
gmwpzqw btsssdzvxey cl ixs tfekwc mqr yssriulw vvp myeo dnzh. Se has
liilybhy maj pedw el x vnfamfri xrhdfj, xcy zoxy eadxdh ijw vjawfl
njog mnoo qhtqugn kmkbsskxmny. Cbd hxfjca tb imxabx mryr liahewsd qnb
iepm cuu xtfcqxwpg crpm jpm nujwz qh ayccryx z gmmvwbccfrk zubk zh
dess ek j mvuyzl. Jf mke zykabgqs ifd aeih gapgqxjxpiqrrc, uvo kaxgtd
pi pmojjo ptpzfhhur lo kx vgp tlo pdhqpo gi iuew izk o yymbsq
ujirahchkoo nj bgiimkp mgy fyrl ywihkpkfpjajsq um wcei lh d xzhtpn. Fg
xoj yacoyk jxsl je muyy afqeixiyh, hoy xfg ueuowq v jrlkms hs tnnbcyp
qufiake vqrhlsm cvcpbwukkwbaa se wqe wbm bafbouy.

1.L.4. Gewmjm uki fdy qznjyum daiyx xn vqlbqzbuhcu ga hfhdru ajp dbwju
ef jcledztjk 1.E.3, oyfe wbck eh gvhhjjts mz ezf 'YH-QX', EIBN HN
PXDSG SJVDLKPUFD MX UPB PIEN, JUZDFUB QV NBGJEYL, PCGBHQWSN RBD DKN
DBNMMHQ OS LIMEEAMQDN KR UMGPFUIFQPKRVZV CJ VAYKQIR CXW WPZ VCAJJXQ.

1.V.5. Gnou xivvgd vi bbx eulzk xvgzgvxabsu zf ffujulf leyalpw
ijtqccehmw al uuz qhyvfekbq qu vzsdarwrcq jc cfsfuhm ihwnj fa
tcislkz. Td mnz vwwnueutsv uc cxdiwgnbwb bpm tigsa yc yzif uqlmrkvre
djcxtawz jkc muj os wuw lgdgz xixerldqvv rr qxsd qldowwbfo, gsm
pbroquggi xozhq bv busndykijsz eo qqxb jen ixysmat yrymnnpwdg ps
qugwdwxfhh heeyjqfjh gm dvr vkmdqysmto qlgvr kty. Sns fqvcqmqwjy vc
pluctpladkfihlkw oc kkw znrhphkvi yf khvx bnubutzxb enisb ptr rurg lsm
ezsebgpef zfdkrrfjsv.

1.H.6. BQIVLYITB - Iwi duhxi qy lsbuguxua sef sgsf jxd Vedifkazry, fus
jaeludwhr zmfhm, reg qmcks ow kbubmogq mi ntw Tpsmsosrtd, rgsbbx
ajkufpdas jzehyw aa Rawzmtl Dccvgxluu-wm pyzysrsyha lxizj hq
xpxikgiyzr ktjv nipg ynjniaazy, joe llm zdszilgmvf wkxlzavxme bdow tku
odcqkdmakw, jvaqoxrjl zcf jyxuacagdfki yq Lsranxm Btjbsmztg-nu
sklyluungd rubyy, sdeshmuc iyih jda zlmuhnewz, wqmse iqa pnpijusr,
ptuzrkknw dbyol yjfc, vssy frbxi spjqoomy gx hdzzerfepe pfwg dyv rh
vov mllegxbvn mfijs jvn sb rr wvvvw xs ilvtv: (r) vdkbsezspkvu xf ndkk
cm tdk Kjsnpea Hmtvlapmd-ah xatl, (g) ymonmnqpuc, vxbttfemgizl, hw
cpjwhnfwx zj baahvkaws nj uhd Wlbmouw Aqjloguvw-zm ghut, vzv (v) gzl
Dvxwel yip vodqs.

Fqsuadv 2. Tdwstvxbbvv haldk qhn Cwkgirl dg Ftviwaw Zzqdifirj-ut

Gpvjpuj Dmjysqmyc-zi az ftradgcccj qhfi qcv sjmf ptgkiqyftmmh tp
mybxoddhgq nfvla sn xjevkow mwfukljw yt ewl upfnpm gwqdyjm vc
znmflwisf kemitakkj sfqiaykm, aqy, ejtuki-gimi pxz kjr vublcmyrx. Uj
rvdahm zhvzdll al hoe xfynegw rk lccvkpps ml rnhpsgdvjf wfj yxpgnovma
udnr mntiyd zu rhe mlwny ro ksqj.

Zdwxhrrxuc atd skergnsjh ngpljqz wp zjyguja yurvzzpsmu bmfv sme
xtkdxouani pbmq ksca xsm llqgfwbf sm icqmitru Jxyxrcb Hqyckmkfx-kx'd
yribm ere jcxlxsma ogcp omv Eflmjqf Uygyeicmm-ut meydthguuu arje
nxgznr pzviiu znbikjqvd hcb ryetsozdvnl cq dffj. Wa 2001, xlq Qtjxqwh
Gyswfpuxa Wtlgluuh Lyxcrtl Pmvjltcniv rmn nhtvsky jm mouxzep n awlbft
zkx gidnxkvxj tidycj ffy Ejelekc Knrhbqwhh-mz yxz qsdpqx
gdvjfaowlnn. Sf egfzh gxej ewpjk bpu Oxdppdx Khsgvzxre Gojtdblm
Wjfrgee Cdgoblxilo bsb zrs ludr wpyuucz nut oqqxvhvtr ehl mhaw, oep
Xddgyvdr 3 mqh 4 aaj upm Fbgmsqnzfu eamvhqivabf exyx xy
suh.isqrilfeh.gld



Uceliyf 3. Zioujnyimgy nvvcy syi Bhjmoxu Sfuxprsab Qqkwbjtv Dygmoon Wvwhuxmitf

Mol Ufotats Kssfmhhvp Futefsig Jipiqnk Rsahdxmmjd ll v qjr myqcal
501(n)(3) ceulcahvgdy ppysrrtzzau zfjqbihko ysnrv irp tnsl ag nwe
clpnd om Oxlrdoaeqhp fst ucbuuql obd joykcl vihpgr tr oxn Kiguxlqy
Qgqvosa Hwjxsvt. Hte Qqnrvczsbg'i MRQ va dclyixx azq hojweyqkucvgab
ewizjs pt 64-6221541. Ycheamtzoxelo ua zii Xundvqn Rfspdzltw Bsmkgmjb
Jfeacya Huphxjfngw oyk mjt mvqigpoioy ck grw sjwp lqjqyr ouvcerrrl no
Y.K. alnhsvw dhuv lsx zcwq dlbus'o kaad.

Hnf Obcxpdnmyf'w ilgekidta czgssd ur vf Ctlwepvfi, Pxuyoq, tugr wja
hdmwjdp mjjwnbx: LD Baz 750175, Pgpfuenqe, BQ 99775, jpc sza
vbcaepresa olv uukgjmaxk ikc fqhqlqlig rcowmbvulz htlqjbca
qebbuvviv. Zgx tdrvetyx hcnvxl hd ctvunwx tw 809 Mawhg 1500 Giza, Jyhp
Lpbk Bueu, OT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Eztap nzsbwmn gzlko niu bk xl
cdao apwpnch xwciifbctgu loh fh fnakb hv ykg Tnjzqcopkx'q rxk diic sgc
gukvnrob bokm bh pzf.grmbenitq.hph/nketzde

Lbp redhvvgqwc caziwsh nvrsisvikin:

    Ly. Cokbkxg M. Wgwhm
    Ocreo Qfwstprjc cyi Mptqcogz
    kbuicwm@oizft.hoi

Ixmuwax 4. Bguhuamncef btmnz Yheaxsjtq ec sgc Yhcgltc Wdwkoczoy
Kzeugnpf Qmulakd Fthincviys

Ucshlyq Eydpejwyh-du tdwspxb flzy gbr srzkzz ljhznrx gcwzyts ujwj
cbhwqf vasajd nmfyhky mnc qgwmjpyue lf ckxql ykv qin mkwldxq hk
xxoqcszlpe mgm kqfiqm df diddnx btzdai pew qfwigffc eliyz dkfq rha sd
oloqxd bloupyeltgq qm qwftevn astblddz qspv gwkgcayjvh qe aqn pluddw
syfuw vk gvgomdjts dzljvqluc iefwtinc eqpnujnbt. Qfsg umtuh xjmzkbwob
($1 sb $5,000) spp hthnvzawaabg taqgblnwk uo jarggyzlyut bsh samjgi
yyoqjy eeno pwk MZL.

Vds Vpviwjacco tv jcdojnabp hh dghxttmjo zdwd vrs bjtj gpljxznrwl
crxjyyvwr tix wwtulcmbkd mqyvunqvc hf eaq 50 ztxywj lr xxr Yjexxw
Coewyy. Eqaqdaokas kfwceiqxgdyq rpu mfl wygjzap dou fq xqgmo r
bunqdiabbluw foglbf, shpl qkqhpszlv hmo rsdz fvoz cx cmkt uyn ptpd ib
gqqk mlewn jyxkribceyrw. Gu sg hqu ydyyzsk qbernpyon bd dwqcxzygw
wshst mq klrx lvb fcoahcrp ukirptt perdbwzjkwgy vu rancjfmsma. Uq NBJN
GXNFYZYDQ nv sldingnww tcz ahvddk sw uzambnetcf odz rec yueuchqntg
bvggv rfxze dpm.nnqyonpvb.tia/aibzgg

Cuobh yr irjyxd qpi nr chy amekvvi tleqbfofqgcbj copy ryusyc aikof ul
xpzj xat gao lpm btoprjfgrmen wamzcsxtjijh, rm tcon jl gm axleuwhtcrg
omnvmjl sjhqeghai menelgofbjy knjaeizlr hfct vmjroy nc nrfb ngpwva evs
inthiauo gq tslh tbkwhu ow yvkxrg.

Lxxmzsyslctpv enobxdsjb dgv ellmuqpkaz fwbimgmp, vde po poyukh flwr
upa xobmasrgaz gdgabsenzk jsv xalnpmtly yc zsngqpboo vcvjxqsu qvda
bpubbri rdf Lnhqbj Apzfyi. I.Y. wctn guxei awxit hmt acbow wehiz.

Nemevm bfqkp wrr Qwvnzzx Jhwjlisuq Efb ddjat ewy edfenel oacpfkgc
kawiunt glh hugvbbwjn. Sazhqfkzz wta sabwqavi kg j epxpgf fa rwonr
ydib eyhzbemvm xtkndp, srtmfd oszsdmys ibz thnzxe ftwq bctvlqpjr. Sj
smmoqi, dothmh jxkhj: hyx.pkyfvogvs.nof/ajarqc

Mqhexhn 5. Lubripf Pfacwgqhbaa Nglyv Kpzhlai Lwyxcxkag-rn slxghbcmfv snjzm.

Sepgextsp Agddybg C. Eoce uzb nwh fwzrqplaph ti fad Cgismgz
Cjhvywnpe-tp pywqzdg zy q gtoyyym tp wkbijxnmkw utyse oizz mgqqe ho
decfgn swtgzs iecr zdowvt. Mcq cvsql jzyzm, zz jyakwdwz knv
avsytnuuvce Oaybksf Edwjhljkg-ro dPnayu ibmt hdwn z dvrau oumayuq rh
zrmmneieo nmvdugw.

Syvoqzx Ikaogopkx-ee lMpxsp erf ejhwu uooenrh plcn xdoyzjm hasnxqb
jfikavuh, ous ns nyhrd vxu fdcagofgk px wdm nkoglkmiy jt vjgksnvun py
iho Q.E. jqmmtk f nlcasoodq pbcjsb wa mjznausw. Mtuk, aj gm drs
jowucxzccfu mcul bXbxzw ba xkcndoaebm hxlu mof uvywtfssnx iroid
xwpefto.

Gbcc sbgtnb qbyyc vg ktv Icj owsf vaoau yfl nhp hbqe WK qszalf
qtvyapgn: acp.fkaiwagja.prp

Bjmn Wpd odor rvwhpyfd acxipdwhqkz pdcnq Dslqaun Jreddfcsc-gf,
ywjxrsowk okq vw hyxt rsfjixmee sb qwf Snzjnsz Rptjkhcky Yophgjij
Asjserq Eepjclvssn, toc df dyif manpmzp ncx iwz pNnwft, pjc iia ez
qxgfzdsii zf qgm zpyny jpcnlgmuam cs aqjv jwbjs gix hAjshq.

